 
 
 
1 
 
 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT  
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK  
 
THE NEW YORK TIMES COMPANY   
 
Civil Action No. ________ 
 
 
COMPLAINT  
  
JURY TRIAL DEMANDED 
  Plaintiff,  
v.  
MICROSOFT CORPORATION, OPENAI, INC., 
OPENAI LP, OPENAI GP, LLC, OPENAI, LLC, 
OPENAI OPCO LLC, OPENAI GLOBAL LLC, 
OAI CORPORATION, LLC, and OPENAI 
HOLDINGS, LLC, 
  
Defendants.  
 
Plaintiff The New York Times Company (“The Times”), by its attorneys Susman Godfrey 
LLP and Rothwell, Figg, Ernst & Manbeck, P.C., for its complaint against Defendants Microsoft 
Corporation (“Microsoft”) and OpenAI, Inc., OpenAI LP, OpenAI GP LLC, OpenAI LLC, OpenAI 
OpCo LLC, OpenAI Global LLC, OAI Corporation, LLC, OpenAI Holdings, LLC, (collectively 
“OpenAI” and, with Microsoft, “Defendants”), alleges as follows: 
I. NATURE OF THE ACTION 
1. Independent journalism is vital to our democracy. It is also increasingly rare and 
valuable. For more than 170 years, The Times has given the world deeply reported, expert, 
independent journalism. Times journalists go where the story is, often at great risk and cost, to 
inform the public about important and pressing issues. They bear witness to conflict and disasters, 
provide accountability for the use of power, and illuminate truths that would otherwise go unseen. 
Their essential work is made possible through the efforts of a large and expensive organization 
that provides legal, security, and operational support, as well as editors who ensure the ir journalism 
meets the highest standards of accuracy and fairness. This work has always been important. But Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 1 of 69
 
 
 
2 
 
 within a damaged information ecosystem that is awash in unreliable content, The Times’s 
journalism provides a service that has grown even more valuable to the public by supplying 
trustworthy information, news analysis, and commentary. 
2. Defendants’ unlawful use of The Times’s work to create artificial intelligence 
products that compete with it threatens  The Times’s ability to provide that service. Defendants’ 
generative artificial intelligence (“G enAI”) tools rely on large-language models (“LLM s”) that 
were built by copying and using millions of The Times’s copyrighted news articles, in-depth 
investigations, opinion pieces, reviews, how -to guides, and more. While Defendants engaged in 
widescale copying from many sources, they gave Times content particular emphasis when building 
their LLMs—revealing a preference that recognizes the value of those works. Through Microsoft’s 
Bing Chat (recently rebranded as “Copilot”) and OpenAI’s ChatGPT, Defendants seek to free-ride 
on The Times’s massive investment in its journalism by using it to build substitutive products 
without permission or payment.  
3. The Constitution and the Copyright Act recognize the critical importance of giving 
creators exclusive rights over their works. Since our nation’s founding, strong copyright protection 
has empowered those who gather and report news to secure the fruits of their labor and investment. 
Copyright law protects The Times’s expressive, original journalism, including, but not limited to, 
its millions of articles that have registered copyrights .  
4. Defendants have refused to recognize this protection. Powered by LLMs containing 
copies of Times content, Defendants’ GenAI tools can generate output that recites Times content 
verbatim, closely summarizes it, and mimics its expressive style, as demonstrated by scores of 
examples. See Exhibit J. These tools also wrongly attribute false information to The Times.  Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 2 of 69
 
 
 
3 
 
 5. Defendants also use Microsoft’s Bing search index, which copies and categorizes 
The Times’s online content, to generate responses that contain verbatim excerpts and detailed 
summaries of Times articles that are significantly longer and more detailed than those returned by 
traditional search engines. By providing Times content without The Times’s permission or 
authorization, Defendants’ tools undermine and damage The Times’s relationship with its readers 
and deprive The Times of subscription, licensing, advertising , and affiliate revenue.  
6. Using the valuable intellectual property of others in these ways without paying for 
it has been extremely lucrative for Defendants. Microsoft’s deployment of Times -trained LLMs 
throughout its product line helped boost its market capitalization by a trillion dollars in the past 
year alone. And OpenAI’s  release of ChatGPT has driven its valuation to as high as $90 billion. 
Defendants’ GenAI business interests are deeply intertwined, with Microsoft recently highlighting that its use of OpenAI’s “best-in-class frontier models” has generated customers —including 
“leading AI startups”—for Microsoft’s Azure AI product.
1 
7. The Times objected after it discovered that Defendants were using Times content 
without permission to develop their models and tools. For months, The Times has attempted to 
reach a negotiated agreement with Defendants, in accordance with its history of working productively with large technology platforms to permit the use of its content in new digital 
products (including the news products developed by Google, Meta, and Apple). The Times’s goal during these negotiations was to ensure it received fair value for the use of its content, facilitate 
the continuation of a healthy news ecosystem, and help develop GenAI technology in a responsible 
way that benefits society and supports a well-informed public.  
 
1 Microsoft Fiscal Year 2024 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call , MICROSOFT INVESTOR RELATIONS  
(Oct. 24, 2023),  https://www.microsoft.com/en -us/Investor/events/FY -2024/earnings -fy-2024- q1.aspx.  Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 3 of 69
 
 
 
4 
 
 8. These negotiations have not led to a resolution . Publicly, Defendants insist that their 
conduct is protected as “fair use” because their unlicensed use of copyrighted content to train 
GenAI models serves a new “transformative” purpose. But there is nothing “transformative” about 
using The Times’s content without payment to create products that substitute for The Times and 
steal audiences away from it. Because the outputs of Defendants’  GenAI models compete with and 
closely mimic the inputs used to train them, copying Times works for that purpose is not fair use.  
9. The law does not permit the kind of systematic and competitive infringement that 
Defendants have committed. This action seeks to hold them responsible for the billions of dollars 
in statutory and actual damages that they owe for the unlawful copying and use of The Times’s 
uniquely valuable works.     
II. JURISDICTION AND VENUE  
10. The Court has subject matter jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. §§  1331 and 1338(a) 
because this action arises under the Copyright Act of 1976, 17 U.S.C. § 101, et seq.  
11. Jurisdiction over Microsoft and OpenAI is proper because they have purposely 
availed themselves of the privilege of conducting business in New York. A substantial portion of 
Microsoft and OpenAI’s  widespread infringement and other unlawful conduct alleged herein 
occurred in New York, including the distribution and sales of Microsoft and OpenAI’s  Generative 
Pre-training Transformer (“GPT”)-based products like ChatGPT, ChatGPT Enterprise, Bing Chat, Azure OpenAI Service, Microsoft 365 Copilot, and related application programming interface 
(API) tools within New York to New York residents. Furthermore, both Microsoft and the OpenAI Defendants maintain offices and employ personnel in New York who, upon information and belief, were involved in the creation, maintenance, or monetization of  Microsoft and OpenAI’s  
widespread infringement and other unlawful conduct alleged herein.  Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 4 of 69
 
 
 
5 
 
 12. Because The Times’s principal place of business and headquarters is in this District, 
the injuries alleged herein from Microsoft and OpenAI’s  widespread infringement and other 
unlawful conduct foreseeably occurred in this District.  
13. Venue is proper under 28 U.S.C. § 1400(a) because Defendants or their agents 
reside or may be found in this District, through the infringing and unlawful activities —as well as 
Defendants’ sales and monetization of such activity —that occurred in this District. Venue is also 
proper under 28 U.S.C. § 1391(b)(2) because a substantial part of the events giving rise to The 
Times’s claims occurred in this District, including the marketing, sales, and licensing of 
Defendants’ GenAI products built on the infringement of The Times’s intellectual property within 
this District. Upon information and belief, OpenAI has sold subscriptions for ChatGPT Plus to 
New York residents, and both Microsoft and OpenAI enjoy a substantial base of monthly active 
users of Bing Chat and ChatGPT in New York. OpenAI has licensed its GPT models to New York 
residents and companies headquartered in New York.  For example, this year , OpenAI struck deals 
to license its GPT models to the Associated Press (AP) and Morgan Stanley, both companies 
headquartered in New York.  
III. THE PARTIES 
14. Plaintiff The New York Times Company is a New York corporation with its 
headquarters and principal place of business in New York. The Times publishes digital and print 
products, including its core news product, The New York Times, which is available on its mobile 
applications, on its website (NYTimes.com), and as a printed newspaper, and associated content 
such as its podcasts. The Times also publishes other interest-specific publications, including The 
Athletic (sports media), Cooking (recipes  and other cooking-related content), Games (puzzles and Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 5 of 69
 
 
 
6 
 
 games), and Wirecutter (shopping recommendations). The Times owns over 3 million registered, 
copyrighted works, including those set forth in Exhibits A–I, K (“Times Works”).  
15. Microsoft Corporation is a Washington corporation with a principal place of 
business and headquarters in Redmond, Washington. Microsoft has invested at least $13 billion in 
OpenAI Global LLC in exchange for which Microsoft will receive 75% of that company’ s profits 
until its investment is repaid, after which Microsoft will own a 49% stake in that company.  
16. Microsoft has described its relationship with the OpenAI Defendants as a 
“partnership.” This partnership has included contributing and operating the cloud computing services used to copy Times Works and train the OpenAI Defendants’ GenAI models. It has als o 
included, upon information and belief, substantial technical collaboration on the creation of those 
models. Microsoft possesses copies of, or obtains preferential access to, the OpenAI Defendants’ latest GenAI models that have been trained on and embody unauthorized copies of the Times 
Works. Microsoft uses these models to provide infringing content and, at times, misinformation to users of its products and online services. During a quarterly earnings call in October 2023, 
Microsoft noted that “more than 18,000 organizations now use Azure OpenAI Service, including 
new-to-Azure customers.” 
17. The OpenAI Defendants consist of a web of interrelated Delaware entities.  
18. Defendant OpenAI Inc. is a Delaware nonprofit corporation with a principal place 
of business located at 3180 18th Street, San Francisco, California. OpenAI Inc. was formed in 
December 2015. OpenAI Inc. indirectly owns and controls all other OpenAI entities and has been 
directly involved in perpetrating the mass infringement and other unlawful conduct alleged here.  
19. Defendant OpenAI LP is a Delaware limited partnership with its principal place of 
business located at 3180 18th Street, San Francisco, California. OpenAI LP was formed in 2019. Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 6 of 69
 
 
 
7 
 
 OpenAI LP is a wholly owned subsidiary of OpenAI Inc. that is operated for profit  and is controlled 
by OpenAI Inc. OpenAI LP was directly involved in perpetrating the mass infringement and 
commercial exploitation of Times  Works alleged here.  
20. Defendant OpenAI GP, LLC is a Delaware limited liability company with a 
principal place of business located at 3180 18th Street, San Francisco, California. OpenAI GP, 
LLC is the general partner of OpenAI LP , and it manages and operates the day-to-day business and 
affairs of OpenAI LP . OpenAI GP LLC is wholly owned and controlled by OpenAI Inc. OpenAI, 
Inc. uses OpenAI GP LLC to control OpenAI LP and OpenAI Global, LLC. OpenAI GP , LLC was 
involved in perpetrating the mass infringement and unlawful exploitati on of Times  Works alleged 
here through its direction and control of OpenAI LP and OpenAI Global LLC.  
21. Defendant OpenAI, LLC is a Delaware limited liability company with a principal 
place of business located at 3180 18th Street, San Francisco, California. OpenAI, LLC was formed 
in September 2020. OpenAI LLC owns, sells, licenses, and monetizes a number of OpenAI’s 
offerings, including ChatGPT, ChatGPT Enterprise, and OpenAI’s API tools, all of which were built on OpenAI’s mass infringement and unlawful exploitation of Times Works. Upon information 
and belief, OpenAI, LLC is owned and controlled by both OpenA I Inc. and Microsoft Corporation, 
through OpenAI Global LLC and OpenAI OpCo LLC. 
22. Defendant OpenAI OpCo LLC is a Delaware limited liability company with a 
principal place of business located at 3180 18th Street, San Francisco, California. OpenAI OpCo 
LLC is a wholly owned subsidiary of OpenAI Inc. and has facilitated and directed OpenAI’s mass 
infringement and unlawful exploitation of Times  Works through its management and direction of 
OpenAI, LLC. Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 7 of 69
 
 
 
8 
 
 23. Defendant OpenAI Global LLC is a Delaware limited liability company formed in 
December 2022. OpenAI Global LLC has a principal place of business located at 3180 18th Street, 
San Francisco, California. Microsoft Corporation has a minority stake in OpenAI Global LLC and 
OpenAI, Inc. has a majority stake in OpenAI Global LLC, indirectly through OpenAI Holdings LLC and OAI Corporation, LLC. OpenAI Global LLC was and is involved in  unlawful conduct 
alleged herein through its ownership, control, and direction of OpenAI LLC.  
24. Defendant OAI Corporation, LLC is a Delaware limited liability company with a 
principal place of business located at 3180 18th Street, San Francisco, California. OAI 
Corporation, LLC’s sole member is OpenAI Holdings, LLC. OAI Corporation, LLC was and is 
involved in the unlawful conduct alleged herein through its ownership, control, a nd direction of 
OpenAI Global LLC and OpenAI LLC.  
25. Defendant OpenAI Holdings, LLC is a Delaware limited liability company, whose 
sole members are OpenAI, Inc. and Aestas, LLC, whose sole member, in turn, is Aestas Management Company, LLC. Aestas Management Company, LLC is a Delaware shell company formed for the purpose of executing a $495 million capital raise for OpenAI.   
IV. FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS 
A. The New York Times and its Mission 
1. Almost Two Centuries of High-Quality, Original, Independent News 
26. The New York Times is a trusted source of quality, independent journalism whose 
mission is to seek the truth and help people understand the world . Begun as a small , local 
newspaper, The Times has evolved to a diversified multi-media company with readers, listeners , 
and viewers around the globe. Today, more than 10 million subscribers pay for Times journalism, Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 8 of 69
 
 
 
9 
 
 which includes everything from news to opinion, culture to business, cooking to games , and 
shopping recommendations to sports .  
27. Founded in 1851, The New York Times has a long history of providing the public 
with independent journalism of the highest quality. When Adolph Ochs bought the newspaper out 
of bankruptcy in 1896, he vowed that The Times would be fiercely independent, dedicated to 
journalism of the highest integrity , and devoted to the public welfare. He articulated the vision:  
“To give the news impartially, without fear or favor, regardless of any party, sect, or interest 
involved.” These words still animate The New York Times today, nearly two centuries later .  
28. Producing original independent journalism is at the heart of this mission. Times 
journalists cover the most important stories across the globe; in a typical year, The Times sends journalists to report on the ground from more than 160 countries. Together, a long with editors, 
photographers, audio producers, videographers, graphic designers, data analysts, and more, The 
Times’s newsroom produces groundbreaking journalism across every major storytelling format.  
29. The quality of The Times’s coverage has been widely recognized with many 
industry and peer accolades, including  135 Pulitzer Prizes since its first Pulitzer award in 1918 
(nearly twice as many as any other organization) . The Times’s journalism is also deeply impactful. 
Academics, teachers, and scientists have used it to educate and innovate. Lawmakers have cited it 
to introduce legislation. Judges have referenced it in rulings. And tens of millions of people rely 
on it every day. 
30. Times journalists are experts in their subject matter and among the most 
experienced and talented in the industry. In many cases, their work is enhanced by professional 
expertise: lawyers cover the court, doctors cover health care, and veterans cover the military. Many 
Times  journalists draw on decades of experience. One reporter covering the White House, for Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 9 of 69
 
 
 
10 
 
 example, has reported on five administrations. His colleague, a White House photographer, has 
covered seven.  
31. In addition to journalists who spend considerable time and effort reporting pieces, 
The Times employs hundreds of editors to painstakingly review its journalism for accuracy, 
independence, and fairness , with at least two editors reviewing each piece prior to publication and 
many more reviewing the most important and sensitive pieces . The Times also has among the 
largest and most robust Standards teams in the industry , which advises the newsroom daily on 
consistency, accuracy, fairness, and clarity in its reporting and maintains stringent ethical 
guidelines for journalists and their work. The Times also maintains an internal Stylebook, a 
document that is updated over time to guide the tone of its journalism and the prose used . There is 
also an ongoing dialogue among journalists and editors to ensure The Times fairly and thoroughly 
covers the right stories and presents what it finds in a clear and compelling way. Producing Times 
journalism is a creative and deeply human endeavor.  
2. Groundbreaking, In-Depth Journalism and Breaking News at Great Cost 
32. To produce world-class journalism, The Times invests an enormous amount of time, 
money, expertise, and talent, both in its newsroom and product, technology , and other supporting 
teams. Core areas of focus include:  
33. Investigative Reporting. The Times does deep investigations —which usually take 
months and sometimes years to report and produce—into complex and important areas of public 
interest. The Times’s reporters routinely uncover stories that would otherwise never come to light. 
They have exposed problems, held power to account , and demanded the public’s attention.  In 
investigating these areas, Times coverage often results in meaningful reforms. These stories are Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 10 of 69
 
 
 
11 
 
 written and edited in the style that is widely associated with The Times, one that readers trust and 
seek out.  
34. Breaking News Reporting. The Times is equally committed to quickly and 
accurately reporting breaking news. In an era in which speculation, disinformation, and spin often 
drown out the truth when news breaks, The Times fills an important need for trustworthy news 
with journalists who have the subject-matter expertise, news judgment, and sources required to 
report the facts in a compelling way . This year, The Times has provided detailed, real -time 
coverage on breaking news across a range of topics, including the upcoming U.S. elections, 
multiple mass shootings including those in Maine and Nashville, wars in Ukraine and the Middle 
East, a spate of natural disasters around the globe, and the collapse of major regional banks .  
35. Beat Reporting: The Times invests significantly in its beat reporting by  giving its 
beat reporters the time and space to go deep on a single topic. At The Times, these topics vary from 
public health to religion to architecture, and from the Pentagon to Hollywood to Wall Street. They also include The Times’s dozens of national and international bureaus, where correspondents are 
steeped in the communities they cover. Because this type of journalism is grounded in the expertise and deep connections of Times journalists, beat coverage enriches The Times’s reporting. 
36. Reviews and Analysis. The Times is a trusted source for reviews and analysis of 
arts and culture, including food, books, art, film, theater, television, music, fashion, and travel . In 
2016, it acquired the product review site Wirecutter, which recommends the best products in 
dozens of categories including home goods, technology, health and fitness, and more. Each year, Wirecutter spends tens of thousands of hours conducting rigorous testing and research to produce a catalog of reviews that today covers thousands of products. Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 11 of 69
 
 
 
12 
 
 37. Commentary and Opinion. The Times publishes opinion articles that contribute 
to public debate across the world. Many of these articles come from The Times’s staff of world -
renowned columnists. Additionally, leaders in business, politics, religion, education, and the arts 
write guest essays for The Times’s opinion section, giving reade rs the opportunity to understand a 
wide range of experiences, perspectives, and ideas about the most important issues of the day. 
3. A Commitment to Quality Journalism 
38. It takes enormous resources to publish, on average, more than 250 original articles  
every day . Many of these articles take months—and sometimes longer—to report. That output is 
the work of approximately 5,800 full-time equivalent Times employees  (as of December 31, 2022), 
some 2,600 of whom are directly involved in The Times’s journalism operations.  
39. Quite often, the most vital news reporting for society is the most resource -intensive. 
Some of The Times’s most important journalism requires deploying teams of journalists at great 
cost to report on the ground around the world, providing best-in-class  security and support, filing 
lawsuits against government entities to bring information to light, and supporting journalists 
through investigations that can take months or years.  
40. Subscription, advertising, licensing, and affiliate revenue make this reporting 
possible. In 1996, The Times launched a core news website, alongside its paid print edition, that 
was free. As readers shifted from print news to digital products, The Times—like most print 
publishers—faced the prospect of not being able to continue funding its journalism . In response, 
The Times reinvented its business model to incorporate digital subscriptions. The Times launched 
its metered paywall in 2011, in what it called “a bet that readers will pay for news they are 
accustomed to getting free.”2  
 
2 Jeremy W. Peters, The Times Announces Digital Subscription Plan , N.Y.  TIMES (Mar. 17, 2011), 
https://www.nytimes.com/2011/03/18/business/media/18times.html . Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 12 of 69
 
 
 
13 
 
 41. Thanks to the quality of The Times’s journalism, that strategic innovation paid off, 
which allowed The Times to continue to exist and to thrive. Today, the vast majority of subscribers 
are digital-only . In the 12 years since The Times launched its paywall, it has grown its paid digital 
subscribership and developed a direct relationship with its online audience through its tireless 
commitment to making journalism “worth paying for.” Generating and maintaining direct traffic 
to its online content and mobile applications are critical components of The Times’s financial 
success.  
42. By the third quarter of 2023, The Times had nearly 10.1 million digital and print 
subscribers worldwide. The Times aims to have 15 million subscribers by year -end 2027. 
43. The Times makes journalism “worth paying for” by p ublishing articles that are 
exhaustively researched and reported, thoughtfully written, carefully edited, and thoroughly fact-
checked.  
44. In addition, The Times has deepened its relationship with its readers by expanding 
its offerings to better encompass its readers’  specific interests, including best-in-class  offerings 
like Cooking, Wirecutter, Games, and The Athletic. 
45. The Times’s paywall does not require payment for all access to The Times’s 
content. To build audience engagement and loyalty, The Times ’s access model generally offers 
registered users free access to a limited number of articles and other content before requiring them 
to subscribe for access to additional content. Approximately 50 to 100 million users, on average, 
engage with The Times’s digital content each week. This traffic is a key source of advertising 
revenue and helps drive future subscriptions to The Times. 
46. The Times also compiled digital archives of all its material going back to its 
founding, at significant cost. Its digital archives include The New York Times Article Archive, with Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 13 of 69
 
 
 
14 
 
 partial and full-text digital versions of articles from 1851 to today, and the TimesMachine, a 
browser -based digital replica of all issues from 1851 to 2002. This represents a singular database 
of contemporaneous language and information, as well as a unique and valuable historical record. The Times also provides its own API that allows researchers and academics to search Times 
content for non-commercial purposes.  
4. GenAI Products Threaten High-Quality Journalism  
47. Making great journalism is harder than ever. Over the past two decades, the 
traditional business models that supported quality journalism have collapsed, forcing the shuttering of newspapers all over the country . It has become more difficult for the public to sort fact from 
fiction in today’s information ecosystem, as misinformation flood s the internet, television, and 
other media. If The Times and other news organizations cannot produce and protect their independent journalism, there will be a vacuum that no computer or artificial intelligence can fill.  
48. The protection of The Times’s intellectual property is critical to its continued ability 
to fund world-class journalism in the public interest. If The Times and its peers cannot control the 
use of their content, their ability to monetize that content will be harmed . With less revenue, news 
organizations will have fewer journalists able to dedicate time and resources to important, in-depth 
stories, which creates a risk that those stories will go untold. Less journalism will be produced, 
and the cost to society will be enormous. 
49. The Times depends on its exclusive rights of reproduction, adaptation, publication, 
performance, and display under copyright law to resist these forces. The Times has registered the 
copyright in its print edition every day for over 100 years, maintains a paywall, and has implemented terms of service that set limits on the copying and use of its content . To use Times Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 14 of 69
 
 
 
15 
 
 content for commercial purposes, a party should first approach The Times about a licensin g 
agreement.  
50. The Times requires third parties to obtain permission before using Times content 
and trademarks for commercial purposes, and for decades The Times has licensed its content under 
negotiated licensing agreements. These agreements help ensure that The Times controls how, 
where, and for how long its content and brand appears and that it receives fair compensation for 
third-party use. Third parties, including large tech platforms, pay The Times significant royalties 
under these agreements in exchange for the right to use Times content for narrowly defined 
purposes. The agreements prohibit uses beyond those authorized purposes.  
51. Times content is also available for licenses for certain uses through the Copyright 
Clearance Center (“CCC”), a clearinghouse that licenses material to both corporate and academic users. Through the CCC, The Times permits limited licenses for instruction, academic, other nonprofit uses, and limited commercial uses. For example, a for -profit business can acquire a CCC 
license to make a photocopy of Times content for internal or external distribution in exchange for 
a licensing fee of about ten dollars per article. A CCC license to post a single Times article on a 
commercial website for up to a year costs several thousand dollars.  
52. The Times’s ability to continue to attract and grow its digital subscriber base and to 
generate digital advertising revenue depends on the size of The Times’s audience and users’  
sustained engagement directly with The Times’s websites and mobile applications. To facilitate 
this direct engagement with its products , The Times permits search engines to access and index its 
content, which is necessary to allow users to find The Times using these search engines. Inherent in this value exchange is the idea that the search engines will direct users to The Times’s own Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 15 of 69
 
 
 
16 
 
 websites and mobile applications , rather than exploit The Times’s content to keep users within 
their own search ecosystem.  
53. While The Times, like virtually all online publishers, permits search engines to 
access its content for the limited purpose of surfacing it in traditional search results, The Times 
has never given permission to any entity, including Defendants, to use its content for GenAI 
purposes.  
54.  The Times reached out to Microsoft and OpenAI in April 2023 to raise intellectual 
property concerns and explore the possibility of an amicable resolution, with commercial terms and technological guardrails that would allow a mutually beneficial value exchange between 
Defendants and The Times . These efforts have not produced a resolution .  
B. Defendants’ GenAI  Products 
1. A Business Model Based on Mass Copyright Infringement  
55. OpenAI was formed in December 2015 as a “non-profit artificial intelligence 
research company.” OpenAI started with $1 billion in seed money from its founders, a group of some of the wealthiest technology entrepreneurs and investors and companies like Amazo n Web 
Services and InfoSys. This group included Elon Musk, the CEO of Tesla and X Corp. (formerly 
known as Twitter); Reid Hoffman, the co-founder of LinkedIn; Sam Altman, the former president of Y Combinator; and Greg Brockman, the former Chief Technology Officer of Stripe.  
56. Despite accepting very large investments from enormously wealthy companies and 
individuals at its founding, OpenAI originally maintained that its research and work would be 
entirely unmotivated by profit. In a December 11, 2015, press release, Brockman and co -founder 
Ilya Sutskever (now OpenAI’s President and Chief Scientist, respectively) wrote : “Our goal is to 
advance digital intelligence in the way that is most likely to benefit humanity as a whole, Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 16 of 69
 
 
 
17 
 
 unconstrained by a need to generate financial return. Since our research is free from financial 
obligations, we can better focus on a positive human impact.” In accordance with that mission, OpenAI promised that its work and intellectual property would be open and available to the public, 
that its “[r]esearchers will be strongly encouraged to publish their work, whether as papers, blog posts, or code” and that its “patents (if any) will be shared with the world.” 
57. Despite its early promises of altruism, OpenAI quickly became a multi-billion-
dollar for -profit business built in large part on the unlicensed exploitation of copyrighted works  
belonging to The Times and others . Just three years after its founding, OpenAI shed its exclusively 
nonprofit status. It created OpenAI LP in March 2019, a for -profit company dedicated to 
conducting the lion’s share of OpenAI’s operations—including product development—and to 
raising capital from investors seeking a return. OpenAI’s corporate structure grew into an intricate 
web of for -profit holding, operating, and shell companies that manage OpenAI’s day -to-day 
operations and grant OpenAI’s investors (most prominently, Microsoft) authority and influence 
over OpenAI’s operations, all while raising billions in capital from investors. The result: OpenAI 
today is a commercial enterprise valued a s high as $90 billion, with revenues projected to be over 
$1 billion in 2024. 
58. With the transition to for -profit status came another change: OpenAI also ended its 
commitment to openness. OpenAI released the first two iterations of its flagship GenAI model, 
GPT-1 and GPT -2, on an open-source basis in 2018 and 2019, respectively. But OpenAI changed 
course in 2020, starting with the release of GPT -3 shortly after OpenAI LP and other for -profit 
OpenAI entities were formed and took control of product design and development.  
59. GPT-3.5 and GPT -4 are both orders of magnitude more powerful than the two 
previous generations, yet Defendants have kept their design and training entirely a secret. For Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 17 of 69
 
 
 
18 
 
 previous generations, OpenAI had voluminous reports detailing the contents of the training set, 
design, and hardware of the LLMs. Not so for GPT -3.5 or GPT -4. For GPT -4, for example, the 
“technical report” that OpenAI released said: “this report contains no further details about the architecture (including model size), hardware, training compute, dataset construction, training method, or similar.”
3  
60. OpenAI’s Chief Scientist Sutskever justified this secrecy on commercial grounds: 
“It’s competitive out there …. And there are many companies who want to do the same thing, so 
from a competitive side, you can see this as maturation of the field.”4 But its effect was to conceal 
the identity of the data OpenAI copied to train its latest models from rightsholders like The Times.  
61. OpenAI became a household name upon the release of ChatGPT in November 
2022. ChatGPT is a text-generating chatbot that, given user -generated prompts, can mimic human-
like natural language responses. ChatGPT was an instant viral sensation , reaching one million 
users within a month of its release and gaining over 100 million users within three months.  
62. OpenAI, through OpenAI OpCo LLC and at the direction of OpenAI Inc., OpenAI 
LP, and other OpenAI entities, offers a suite of services powered by its LLMs, targeted to both ordinary consumers and businesses. A version of ChatGPT powered by GPT -3.5 is available to 
users for free. OpenAI also offers a premium service, powered by OpenAI’s “most capable model” GPT-4, to consumers for $20 per month. OpenAI’s business-focused offerings include ChatGPT 
Enterprise and ChatGPT API tools designed to enable developers to incorporate ChatGPT into 
bespoke applications. OpenAI also licenses its technology to corporate clients for licensing fees.  
 
3 OPENAI, GPT-4 TECHNICAL REPORT  (2023), https://cdn.openai.com/papers/gpt -4.pdf . 
4 James Vincent, OpenAI Co- Founder on Company’s Past Approach to Openly Sharing Research: ‘We Were 
Wrong’ , THE VERGE  (Mar. 15, 2023),  https://www.theverge.com/2023/3/15/23640180/openai -gpt-4-launch -closed-
research -ilya-sutskever -interview . Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 18 of 69
 
 
 
19 
 
 63. These commercial offerings have been immensely valuable for OpenAI. Over 80% 
of Fortune 500 companies are using ChatGPT.5 According to recent reports, OpenAI is generating 
revenues of $80 million per month, and is on track to surpass over $1 billion within the next 12 
months.6  
64. This commercial success is built in large part on OpenAI’s large-scale copyright 
infringement. One of the central features driving the use and sales of ChatGPT and its associated products is the LLM’s ability to produce natural language text in a variety of styles. To achieve this result, OpenAI made numerous reproductions of copyrighted works owned by The Times in the course of “training” the LLM. 
65. Upon information and belief, all of the OpenAI Defendants have been either 
directly involved in or have directed, controlled, and profited from OpenAI’s widespread 
infringement and commercial exploitation of Times Works. OpenAI Inc., alongside Microsoft, 
controlled and directed the widespread reproduction, distribution, and commercial use of The Times’s material perpetrated by OpenAI LP and OpenAI Global LLC, through a series of holding and shell companies that include O penAI Holdings LLC, OpenAI GP LLC, and OAI Corporation 
LLC. OpenAI LP and OpenAI Global LLC were directly involved in the design, dev elopment, and 
commercialization of OpenAI’s GPT -based products, and directly engaged in the widespread 
reproduction, distribution, and commercial use of Times Works. OpenAI LP and OpenAI Global 
LLC also controlled and directed OpenAI, LLC and OpenAI OpCo LLC, which were involved in distributing, selling, and licensing OpenAI’s GPT -based products, and thus monetized the 
reproduction, distribution, and commercial use o f Times Works.  
 
5 OpenAI, Introducing ChatGPT Enterprise , OPENAI (Aug. 28, 2023),  
https://openai.com/blog/introducing -chatgpt -enterprise.  
6 Chris Morris, OpenAI Reportedly Nears $1 Billion in Annual Sales , FAST COMPANY  (Aug. 30, 2023), 
https://www.fastcompany.com/90946849/openai -chatgpt -reportedly -nears -1-billion -annual- sales.  Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 19 of 69
 
 
 
20 
 
 66. Since at least 2019, Microsoft has been, and continues to be, intimately involved in 
the training, development, and commercialization of OpenAI’s GPT products . In an interview with 
the Wall Street Journal at the 2023 World Economic Forum, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella said 
that the “ChatGPT and GPT family of models … is something that we’ve been partnered with 
OpenAI deeply now for multiple years.” Through this partnership, Microsoft has been involved in 
the creation and commercialization of GPT LLMs  and products based on them in at least two ways.  
67. First, Microsoft created and operated bespoke computing systems to execute the 
mass copyright infringement detailed herein . These systems were used to create multiple 
reproductions of The Times’s intellectual property for the purpose of creating the GPT models that exploit and, in many cases, retain large portions of the copyrightable expression contained in those works. 
68. Microsoft is the sole cloud computing provider for OpenAI. Microsoft and OpenAI 
collaborated to design the supercomputing systems powered by Microsoft’s cloud computer platform Azure, which were used to train all OpenAI’s GPT models  after GPT -1. In a July 2023 
keynote speech at the Microsoft Inspire conference, Mr. Nadella said: “We built the infrastructure to train their models. They’re innovating on the algorithms and the training of these frontier models.”  
69. That infrastructure was not just general purpose computer systems for OpenAI to 
use as it saw fit. Microsoft specifically designed it for the purpose of using essentially the whole 
internet—curated to disproportionately feature Times Works—to train the most capable LLM in 
history. In a February 2023 interview, Mr.  Nadella said:  
But beneath what OpenAI is putting out as large models, remember, 
the heavy lifting was done by the [Microsoft] Azure team to build 
the computer infrastructure. Because these workloads are so 
different than anything that’s come before. So we needed to Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 20 of 69
 
 
 
21 
 
 completely rethink even the datacenter up to the infrastructure that 
first gave us even a shot to build the models. And now we’re translating the models into products.
7 
70. Microsoft built this supercomputer “in collaboration with and exclusively for 
OpenAI,” and “designed [it] specifically to train that company’s AI models.”8 Even by 
supercomputing standards, it was unusually complex. According to Microsoft, it operated as “a 
single system with more than 285,000 CPU cores, 10,000 GPUs and 400 gigabits per second of 
network connectivity for each GPU server.” This system ranked in the top five most powerful publicly known supercomputing systems in the world. 
71. To ensure that the supercomputing system suited OpenAI’s needs, Microsoft 
needed to test the system, both independently and in collaboration with OpenAI software engineers. According to Mr. Nadella, with respect to OpenAI: “They do the foundation models, 
and we [Microsoft] do a lot of work around them, including the tooling around responsible AI and 
AI safety.” Upon information and belief, such “tooling around AI and AI safety” involve s the fine-
tuning and calibration of the GPT -based products before their release to the public.
9 
72. In collaboration with OpenAI, Microsoft has also commercialized OpenAI’s GPT -
based technology, and combined it with its own Bing search index. In February 2023, Microsoft 
unveiled Bing Chat, a generative AI chatbot feature on its search engine powered by GPT -4. In 
May 2023, Microsoft and OpenAI unveiled “Browse with Bing,” a plugin to ChatGPT that enabled it to access the latest content on the internet through the Microsoft Bing search engine. Bing Chat 
 
7 First on CNBC: CNBC Transcript: Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella Speaks with CNBC’s Jon Fortt on 
“Power Lunch” Today , CNBC (Feb. 7, 2023),  https://www.cnbc.com/2023/02/07/first -on-cnbc-cnbc-transcript-
microsoft -ceo-satya -nadella- speaks- with-cnbcs- jon-fortt- on-power -lunch -today.html . 
8 Jennifer Langston, Microsoft Announces New Supercomputer, Lays Out Vision for Future AI Work , 
MICROSOFT  (May 19, 2020), https://news.microsoft.com/source/features/ai/openai -azure- supercomputer/.  
9 SÉBASTIEN BUBECK ET AL ., SPARKS OF ARTIFICIAL GENERAL INTELLIGENCE : EARLY EXPERIMENTS WITH 
GPT-4 (2023), https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.12712.pdf.  Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 21 of 69
 
 
 
22 
 
 and Browse with Bing combine GPT -4’s ability to mimic human expression—including The 
Times ’s expression—with the ability to generate natural language summaries of search result 
contents, including hits on Times Works, that obviate the need to visit The Times ’s own websites. 
These “synthetic” search results purport to answer user queries directly and may include extensive 
paraphrases and direct quotes of Times reporting. Such copying maintains engagement with 
Defendants’  own sites and applications instead of referring users to The Times in the same way as 
organic listings of search results. 
73. In a recent interview, Mr. Nadella acknowledged Microsoft’s intimate involvement 
in OpenAI’s operations and, therefore, its copyright infringement:  
[W]e were very confident in our own ability. We have all the IP 
rights and all the capability. If OpenAI disappeared tomorrow, I 
don’t want any customer of ours to be worried about it quite 
honestly, because we have all of the rights to continue the 
innovation. Not just to serve the product, but we can go and just do 
what we were doing in partnership ourselves. We have the people, we have the compute, we have the data, we have everything.   
74. Through their collaboration in both the creation and the commercialization of the 
GPT models, Defendants have profited from the massive copyright infringement, commercial 
exploitation, and misappropriation of The Times’s intellectual property. As Mr. Nadel la recently 
put it, “[OpenAI] bet on us, we bet on them.” He continued, describing the effect of Microsoft’s 
$13 billion investment:  
And that gives us significant rights as I said. And also this thing, it’s 
not hands off, right? We are in there. We are below them, above 
them, around them. We do the kernel optimizations, we build tools, 
we build the infrastructure. So that’s why I think a lot of the 
industrial analysts are saying, ‘Oh wow, it’s really a joint project 
between Microsoft and OpenAI.’  The reality is we are, as I said, very 
self-sufficient in all of this.  Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 22 of 69
 
 
 
23 
 
 2. How GenAI Models Work 
75. At the heart of Defendants ’ GenAI products is a computer program called a “large 
language model,” or “LLM.” The different versions of GPT are examples of LLMs. An LLM 
works by predicting words that are likely to follow a given string of text based on  the potentially 
billions of examples used to train it.  
76. Appending the output of an LLM to its input and f eeding it back into the model 
produces sentences and paragraphs word by word. This is how ChatGPT and Bing Chat generate 
responses to user queries, or “prompts.”  
77. LLMs  encode the information from the training corpus that they use to make these 
predictions as numbers called “parameters .” There are approximately 1.76 trillion parameters in 
the GPT -4 LLM.  
78. The process of setting the values for an LLM’ s parameters is called “training.” It 
involves storing encoded copies of the training works in computer memory , repeatedly passing 
them through the model with words masked out, and adjusting the parameters to minimize the 
difference between the masked -out words and the words that the model predicts to fill them in .  
79. After being trained on a general corpus, models may be further subject to “fine -
tuning” by, for example, performing additional rounds of training  using specific types of works to 
better mimic their content or style , or providing them with human feedback to reinforce desired or 
suppress undesired behaviors. 
80. Models trained in this way are known to exhibit a behavior called 
“memorization.”10 That is, given the right prompt, they will repeat large portions of materials they 
 
10 GERRIT J.J. VAN DEN BURG & CHRISTOPHER K.I. WILLIAMS , ON MEMORIZATION IN PROBABILISTIC DEEP 
GENERATIVE MODELS  (2021) , https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2021/file/eae15aabaa768ae4a5993a8a4f4fa6e4 -
Paper.pdf . Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 23 of 69
 
 
 
24 
 
 were trained on. This phenomenon shows that LLM parameters encode retrievable copies of many 
of those training works. 
81. Once trained, LLMs may be provided with information specific to a use case or 
subject matter in order to “ground” their outputs. For example, an LLM may be asked to generate 
a text output based on specific external data, such as a document, provided as context. Using this 
method, Defendants’  synthetic search applications : (1) receive an input, such as a question; (2) 
retrieve relevant documents related to the input prior to generating a response; (3) combine the 
original input with the retrieved documents i n order to provide context; and (4) provide the 
combined data to an LLM, which generates a natural-language response.11  As shown below, search 
results generated in this way may extensively copy or closely paraphrase works that the models 
themselves may not have memorized. C. Defendants’ Unauthorized Use and Copying of Times Content 
82. Microsoft and OpenAI created and distributed reproductions of The Times ’s 
content in several, independent ways in the course of training their LLMs and operating the 
products that incorporate them.  
1. Unauthorized Reproduction of Times Works During  GPT Model Training 
83. Defendants’ GPT models are a family of LLMs, the first of which was introduced 
in 2018, followed by GPT -2 in 2019, GPT -3 in 2020, GPT -3.5 in 2022, and GPT -4 in 2023. The 
“chat” style LLMs , GPT-3.5 and GPT -4, were developed in two stages. First, a transformer model 
was pre-trained on a very large amount of data. Second, the model was “fine -tuned” on a much 
smaller supervised dataset in order to help the model solve specific tasks.  
 
11 Ben Ufuk Tezcan, How We Interact with Information: The New Era of Search , MICROSOFT  (Sept. 19, 
2023),  https://azure.microsoft.com/en- us/blog/how -we-interact -with-information -the-new-era-of-search/ . Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 24 of 69
 
 
 
25 
 
 84. The pre-training step involved collecting and storing text content to create training 
datasets and processing that content through the GPT models. While OpenAI did not release the 
trained versions of GPT -2 onward, “[d]ue to [OpenAI’s] concerns about malicious applications of 
the technology,” OpenAI has published general information about its pre-training process for the 
GPT models.12   
85. GPT-2 includes 1.5 billion parameters, which was a 10X scale up of GPT.13 The 
training dataset for GPT -2 includes an internal corpus OpenAI built called “WebText,” which 
includes “the text contents of 45 million links posted by users of the ‘Reddit’ social network.”14 
The contents of the WebText dataset were created as a “new web scrape which emphasizes 
document quality.”15 The WebText dataset contains a staggering amount of scraped content from 
The Times. For example, the NYTimes.com domain is one of the “top 15 domains by volume” in the WebText dataset,
16 and is listed as the 5th “top domain” in the WebText dataset with 333,160 
entries.17   
 
12 OpenAI, Better Language Models and Their Implications , OPENAI (Feb. 14, 2019), 
https://openai.com/research/better -language- models .  
13 Id. 
14 GPT-2 Model Card, G ITHUB  (Nov. 2019), https://github.com/openai/gpt -2/blob/master/model_card.md . 
15 RADFORD ET AL ., LANGUAGE  MODELS  ARE UNSUPERVISED  MULTITASK LEARNERS  3 (2018), 
https://d4mucfpksywv.cloudfront.net/better -language- models/language -models.pdf . 
16 GPT-2 Model Card,  supra note 14. 
17 GPT-2 / domains.txt , GITHUB , https://github.com/openai/gpt -2/blob/master/domains.txt (last visited Dec. 
21, 2023).  Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 25 of 69
 
 
 
26 
 
 86. GPT-3 includes 175 billion parameters and was trained on the datasets listed in the 
table below.18  
 
87. One of these datasets, WebText2, was created to prioritize high value content.  Like 
the original WebText, it is composed of popular outbound links from Reddit. As shown in the table 
above, the WebText2 corpus was weighted 22% in the training mix for GPT -3 despite constituting 
less than 4% of the total tokens in the training mix. Times content—a total of 209,707 unique 
URLs—accounts for 1.23% of all sources listed in OpenWebText2, an open-source re-creation of 
the WebText2 dataset used in training GPT -3. Like the original WebText, OpenAI describes 
WebText2 as a “high-quality” dataset that is “an expanded version of the WebText dataset … 
collected by scraping links over a longer period of time.”19 
88. The most highly weighted dataset in GPT -3, Common Crawl, is a “copy of the 
Internet” made available by an eponymous 501(c)(3) organization run by wealthy venture capital 
investors.20 The domain www.nytimes.com is the most highly represented proprietary source (and 
the third overall behind only Wikipedia and a database of U.S. patent documents)  represented in a 
 
18 BROWN ET AL ., LANGUAGE MODELS ARE FEW-SHOT LEARNERS  9 (2020),  
https://arxiv.org/pdf/2005.14165.pdf.  
19 Id. at 8.  
20 COMMON CRAWL , https://commoncrawl.org/  (last visited Dec. 21, 2023).  
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 26 of 69
 
 
 
27 
 
 filtered English-language subset of a 2019 snapshot of Common Crawl, accounting for 100 million 
tokens (basic units of text):21 
  
89. The Common Crawl dataset includes at least 16 million unique records of content 
from The Times across News, Cooking, Wirecutter, and The Athletic, and more than 66 million 
total records of content from The Times .  
90. Critically, OpenAI admits that “datasets we view as higher -quality are sampled 
more frequently” during training.22 Accordingly, by OpenAI’s own admission, high-quality 
content, including content from The Times, was more important and valuable for training the GPT 
models as compared to content taken from other, lower -quality sources.      
 
21 DODGE ET AL ., DOCUMENTING LARGE WEBTEXT CORPORA : A CASE STUDY ON THE COLOSSAL CLEAN 
CRAWLED CORPUS  (2021), https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.08758 . 
22 BROWN ET AL ., supra note 18. 
Figure 2: Number of tokens from the 25 most represented top-level domains (left) and websites (right) in C4. EN.
3 Corpus-level statistics
Understanding the provenance of the texts that com-
prise a dataset is fundamental to understanding the
dataset itself, so we begin our analysis of the meta-
data of C4. ENby characterizing the prevalence of
different internet domains as sources of text, the
date the websites were ﬁrst indexed by the Internet
Archive, and geolocation of IP addresses of hosted
websites.
3.1 Internet domains
Figure 2(left) shows the 25 most represented top-
level domains (TLD)9, by number of word tokens
inC4. EN(measured using the SpaCy English to-
kenizer).10Unsurprisingly, popular top-level do-
mains such as .com ,.org , and .net are well
represented. We note that some top-level domains
reserved for non-US, English-speaking countries
are less represented, and even some domains forcountries with a primary language other than En-
glish are represented in the top 25 (such as ru).11
A signiﬁcant portion of the text comes from
.gov websites, reserved for the US government.
Another potentially interesting top-level domain is
.mil , reserved for the US government military.
While not in the top 25 TLDs, C4. ENcontains
33,874,654 tokens from .mil top-level domain
sites, coming from 58,394 unique URLs. There are
an additional 1,224,576 tokens (from 2,873 unique
9https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_
of_Internet_top-level_domains
10https://spacy.io/api/tokenizer
11We use the TLDExtract ( https://pypi.org/
project/tldextract/) package to parse the URLs.URLs) from .mod.uk , the domain for the United
Kingdom’s armed forces and Ministry of Defence.
Websites In Figure 2(right), we show the top
25 most represented websites in C4. EN, ranked by
total number of tokens. Surprisingly, the cleaned
corpus contains substantial amounts of patent text
documents, with the single-most represented web-
site in the corpus is patents.google.com and
patents.com being in the top 10. We discuss
the implications of this in §4.1.
Two well-represented domains of text are
Wikipedia and news (NYTimes, LATimes, Al-
Jazeera, etc.). These have been extensively used in
the training of large language models (Devlin et al.,
2019; Liu et al., 2019; Brown et al., 2020, e.g.,
BERT, RoBERTa, GPT-3). Some other noteworthy
websites that make up the top 25 include open-
access publications (Plos, FrontiersIn, Springer),
the book publishing platform Scribd, the stock anal-
yses and advice website Fool.com, and the dis-
tributed ﬁle system ipsf.io.12
3.2 Utterance Date
Language changes over even short timescales, and
the truth or relevance of many statements depends
on when they were made. While the actual utter-ance date is often impossible to obtain for webdocuments, we use the earliest date a URL wasindexed the Internet Archive as a proxy. We note
that using the Internet Archive is not perfect, as it
12Note that the distribution of websites in C4. ENis not
necessarily representative of the most frequently used websites
on the internet, as evidenced by the low overlap with the
top 25 most visited websites as measured by Alexa ( https:
//www.alexa.com/topsites)Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 27 of 69
 
 
 
28 
 
 91. While OpenAI has not released much information about GPT -4, experts suspect 
that GPT -4 includes 1.8 trillion parameters, which is over 10X larger than GPT -3, and was trained 
on approximately 13 trillion tokens.23 The training set for GPT -3, GPT -3.5, and GPT -4 was 
comprised of 45 terabytes of data—the equivalent of a Microsoft Word document that is over 3.7 
billion pages long.24 Between the Common Crawl, WebText, and WebText2 datasets, the 
Defendants likely used millions of Times-owned works in full in order to train the GPT models.  
92. Defendants repeatedly copied this mass of Times copyrighted content, without any 
license or other compensation to The Times . As part of training the GPT models, Microsoft and 
OpenAI collaborated to develop a complex, bespoke supercomputing system to house and reproduce copies of the training dataset, including copies of The Times -owned content. Millions 
of Times Works were copied and ingested—multiple times—for the purpose of “training” 
Defendants’ GPT models.  
93. Upon information and belief, Microsoft and OpenAI acted jointly in the large-scale 
copying of The Times’s material involved in generating the GPT models programmed to accurately mimic The Times’s content and writers. Microsoft and OpenAI collaborated in designing the GPT 
models, selecting the training datasets, and supervising the training process. As Mr. Nadella stated : 
So, there are a lot of, I call it, product design choices one gets to 
make when you think about AI and AI safety. Then, let’s come at it 
the other way. You have to take real care of the pretrained data 
because models are trained on pretrained data. What’s the quality, 
the provenance of that pretrained data? That’s a place where we’ve 
done a lot of work.
25 
 
23 Maximilian Schreiner , GPT -4 Architecture, Datasets, Costs and More Leaked , THE DECODER  (July 11, 
2023), https://the -decoder.com/gpt -4-architecture -datasets -costs -and-more -leaked/.  
24 Kindra Cooper, OpenAI GPT -3: Everything You Need to Know [Updated] , SPRINGBOARD  (Sept. 27, 
2023), https://www.springboard.com/blog/data -science/machine -learning -gpt-3-open- ai/. 
25 Nilay Patel , Microsoft Thinks AI Can Beat Google at Search — CEO Satya Nadella Explains Why , THE 
VERGE  (Feb. 7, 2023), https://www.theverge.com/23589994/microsoft -ceo-satya -nadella- bing- chatgpt -google-
search- ai. Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 28 of 69
 
 
 
29 
 
 94. To the extent that Microsoft did not select the works used to train the GPT models, 
it acted in self-described “partnership” with OpenAI respecting that selection, knew or was 
willfully blind to the identity of the selected works by virtue of its knowledge of the nature and 
identity of the training corpuses and selection criteria employed by OpenAI, and/or had the right 
and ability to prevent OpenAI from using any particular work for training by virtue of its physical 
control of the supercomputer it developed for that purpose and its legal and financial influence 
over the OpenAI Defendants. 
95. Upon information and belief, Microsoft and OpenAI continue to create 
unauthorized copies of Times Works in the form of synthetic search results returned by their Bing 
Chat and Browse with Bing products. Microsoft actively gathers copies of the Times Works used 
to generate such results in the process of crawling the web to create the index for its Bing search 
engine.  
96. On information and belief, Microsoft and OpenAI are currently or will imminently 
commence making additional copies of Times Works to train  and/or fine-tune the next-generation 
GPT-5 LLM.  
97. Defendants’ large-scale commercial exploitation of Times content is not licensed, 
nor have Defendants received permission from The Times to copy and use its works to build their 
GenAI tools.   
2. Embodiment of Unauthorized Reproductions and Derivatives of Times Works in 
GPT Models 
98. As further evidence of being trained using unauthorized copies of Times Works, the 
GPT LLMs themselves have “memorized” copies of many of those same works encoded into their 
parameters. As shown below and in Exhibit J, the current GPT -4 LLM will output near -verbatim Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 29 of 69
 
 
 
30 
 
 copies of significant portions of Times  Works when prompted to do so. Such memorized examples 
constitute unauthorized copies or derivative works of the Times Works used to train the model.  
99. For example, in 2019, The Times published a Pulitzer -prize winning, five-part 
series on predatory lending in New York City’s taxi industry. The 18-month investigation included 
600 interviews, more than 100 records requests, large-scale data analysis, and the review of thousands of pages of internal bank records and other documents, and ultimately led to criminal probes and the enactment of new laws to prevent future abuse . OpenAI had no role in the creation 
of this content, yet with minimal prompting, will recite large portions of it verbatim:
26 
 
 
26 For original article , see Brian M. Rosenthal , As Thousands of Taxi Drivers Were Trapped in Loans, Top 
Officials Counted the Money , N.Y.  TIMES (May 19, 2019),   https://www.nytimes.com/2019/05/19/nyregion/taxi -
medallions.html . 
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 30 of 69
 
 
 
31 
 
  
Exhibit J at 5. 
100. Similarly, in 2012, The Times published a groundbreaking series examining how 
outsourcing by Apple and other technology companies transformed the global economy. The series 
was the product of an enormous effort across three continents. Reporting this story  was especially 
challenging because The Times was repeatedly denied both interviews and access. The Times 
contacted hundreds of current and former Apple executives, and ultimately secured information from more than six dozen Apple insiders . Again, GPT-4 copied this content and can recite large 
portions of it verbatim:
27 
 
 
27 For original article , see Charles Duhigg & Keith Bradsher , How the U.S. Lost Out on iPhone Work , N.Y.  
TIMES (Jan. 2 1, 2012), https://www.nytimes.com/2012/01/22/business/apple -america -and-a-squeezed- middle -
class.html . 
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 31 of 69
 
 
 
32 
 
  
Exhibit J at 3. 
101. Exhibit J provides scores of additional examples of memorization of Times Works 
by GPT -4. Upon information and belief, these examples represent a small fraction of Times Works 
whose expressive contents have been substantially encoded within the parameters of the GPT 
series of LLMs. Each of those LLMs thus embodies many unauthorized copies or deriva tives of 
Times Works. 
3. Unauthorized Public Display of Times Works in GPT Product Outputs 
102. Defendants directly engaged in the unauthorized public display of Times Works as 
part of generative output provided by their products built on the GPT models. Defendants’ commercial applications built using GPT models include, inter alia, ChatGPT (including its 
associated offerings, ChatGPT Plus, ChatGPT Enterprise, and Browse with Bing), Bing Chat, and 
the Microsoft 365 Copilot line of digital assistants. These products display Times content in generative output in at least two ways: (1) by showing “memori zed” copies or derivatives of Times 
Works retrieved from the models themselves, and (2) by showing synthetic search results that are substantially similar to Times Works generated from copies stored in Bing’s search index.  
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 32 of 69
 
 
 
33 
 
 103. For example, ChatGPT displays copies or derivatives of Times Works memorized 
by the underlying GPT models in response to user prompts . Upon information and belief, the 
underlying GPT models for ChatGPT must have been trained on these and countless other Times 
Works to be able to generate such expansive summaries and verbatim text.  
104. Below, ChatGPT  quotes part of the 2012 Pulitzer Prize-winning New York Times 
article “Snow Fall: The Avalanche at Tunnel Creek,” which was generated in response to a prompt 
complaining about being “paywalled out” of the article:28  
 
 
 
28 For original article , see John Branch , Snow Fall : The Avalanche at Tunnel Creek , N.Y.  TIMES (Dec. 13, 
2012), https://www.nytimes.com/projects/2012/snow -fall/index.html#/?part=tunnel -creek.  
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 33 of 69
 
 
 
34 
 
 105. The above output from ChatGPT includes verbatim excerpts from the original 
article. The copied article text is highlighted in red below:  
The snow burst through the trees with no warning but a last-second 
whoosh of sound, a two-story wall of white and Chris Rudolph’s piercing cry: “Avalanche! Elyse!” 
The very thing the 16 skiers and snowboarders had sought — fresh, 
soft snow — instantly became the enemy. Somewhere above, a 
pristine meadow cracked in the shape of a lightning bolt, slicing a 
slab nearly 200 feet across and 3 feet deep. Gravity did the re st. 
Snow shattered and spilled down the slope. Within seconds, the 
avalanche was the size of more than a thousand cars barreling down 
the mountain and weighed millions of pounds. Moving about 7o miles per hour, it crashed through the sturdy old -growth trees, 
snapping their limbs and shredding bark from their trunks. 
The avalanche, in Washington’s Cascades in February , slid past 
some trees and rocks, like ocean swells around a ship’s prow. Others 
it captured and added to its violent load.  
Somewhere inside, it also carried people. How many, no one knew. 
106. Below, ChatGPT purports to quote former Times restaurant critic Pete Wells’s 2012 
review of Guy Fieri’s American Kitchen & Bar , an article that has been described as a viral 
sensation:
29 
 
 
29 For original article , see Pete Wells, As Not Seen on TV, N.Y.  TIMES (Nov. 13, 2012), 
https://www.nytimes.com/2012/11/14/dining/reviews/restaurant- review -guys-american- kitchen- bar-in-times -
square.html. 
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 34 of 69
 
 
 
35 
 
  
 
 
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 35 of 69
 
 
 
36 
 
  
 
107. The above output from ChatGPT includes verbatim excerpts from the original 
article. The copied article text is highlighted in red below:  
GUY FIERI, have you eaten at your new restaurant in Times 
Square? Have you pulled up one of the 500 seats at Guy’s American 
Kitchen & Bar and ordered a meal? Did you eat the food? Did it live 
up to your expectations? 
Did panic grip your soul as you stared into the whirling hypno wheel 
of the menu, where adjectives and nouns spin in a crazy vortex? 
When you saw the burger described as “Guy’s Pat LaFrieda custom 
blend, all-natural Creekstone Farm Black Angus beef patty, LTOP 
(lettuce, tomato, onion + pickle), SMC (super -melty-cheese) and a 
slathering of Donkey Sauce on garlic-buttered brioche,” did your mind touch the void for a minute? 
. . . 
Hey, did you try that blue drink, the one that glows like nuclear 
waste? The watermelon margarita? Any idea why it tastes like some 
combination of radiator fluid and formaldehyde?  
At your five Johnny Garlic’s restaurants in California, if servers 
arrive with main courses and find that the appetizers haven’t been 
cleared yet, do they try to find space for the new plates next to the 
dirty ones? Or does that just happen in Times Square, where people 
are used to crowding? 
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 36 of 69
 
 
 
37 
 
 . . . 
Is the entire restaurant a very expensive piece of conceptual art? Is 
the shapeless, structureless baked alaska that droops and slumps and 
collapses while you eat it, or don’t eat it, supposed to be a representation in sugar and eggs of the experience of g oing insane? 
Why did the toasted marshmallow taste like fish? 
Did you finish that blue drink? Oh, and we never got our Vegas fries; would you mind telling the 
kitchen that we don’t need them? 
Thanks. 
4. Unauthorized Retrieval and Dissemination of Current News 
108. Synthetic search applications built on the GPT LLMs, including Bing Chat and 
Browse with Bing for ChatGPT, display extensive excerpts or paraphrases of the contents of search 
results, including Times content, that may not have been included in the model’s training set. The 
“grounding” technique employed by these products includes receiving a prompt from a user, 
copying Times content relating to the prompt from the internet, providing the prompt together with 
the copied Times content as additional context fo r the LLM, and having the LLM stitch together 
paraphrases or quotes from the copied Times content to create natural -language substitutes that 
serve the same informative purpose as the original. In some cases, Defendants’ models simply spit 
out several paragraphs of The Times’s articles.  
109. The contents of such synthetic responses often go far beyond the snippets typically 
shown with ordinary search results. Even when synthetic search responses include links to source materials, users have less need to navigate to those sources because their expressive content is 
already quoted or paraphrased in the narrative result. Indeed, such indication of attribution may make users more likely to trust the summary alone and not click through to verify.  Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 37 of 69
 
 
 
38 
 
 110. In this way, synthetic search results divert important traffic away from copyright 
holders like The Times. A user who has already read the latest news or found the right kind of 
product, even—or especially—with attribution to The New York Times, has less reason to visit the 
original source.  
111. Below are a few illustrative and non-exhaustive examples of synthetic search 
results from Bing Chat and ChatGPT’s  Browse with Bing. 
a) Examples of Synthetic Search Results from Bing Chat 
112. As shown below, Bing Chat creates unauthorized copies and derivatives of Times 
Works in the form of synthetic search results  generated from Times Works that first appeared after 
the April 2023 cutoff for data used to train OpenAI’s latest GPT -4 Turbo LLM. 30 The first includes 
a long quote from the October 2023 New York Times article “The Secrets Hamas knew about Israel’s Military”:
31 
 
 
30 Michael Schade , GPT -4 Turbo, O PENAI, https://help.openai.com/en/articles/8555510 -gpt-4-turbo  (last 
visited Dec. 21, 2023).  
31 For original article , see Patrick Kingsley & Ronen Bergman , The Secrets Hamas Knew About Israel’ s 
Military , N.Y.  TIMES (Oct. 13, 2023), https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/13/world/middleeast/hamas -israel- attack-
gaza.html . 
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 38 of 69
 
 
 
39 
 
  
113. The above synthetic output from Bing Chat includes verbatim excerpts from the 
original article. The copied article text is highlighted in red below.  
The 10 gunmen from Gaza knew exactly how to find the Israeli 
intelligence hub — and how to get inside. 
After crossing into Israel, they headed east on five motorcycles, two 
gunmen on each vehicle, shooting at passing civilian cars as they pressed forward. 
Ten miles later, they veered off the road into a stretch of woodland, 
dismounting outside an unmanned gate to a military base. They blew 
open the barrier with a small explosive charge, entered the base and 
paused to take a group selfie. Then they shot dead  an unarmed Israeli 
soldier dressed in a T -shirt. 
For a moment, the attackers appeared uncertain about where to go 
next. Then one of them pulled something from his pocket: a color -
coded map of the complex. 
Reoriented, they found an unlocked door to a fortified building. 
Once inside, they entered a room filled with computers — the 
military intelligence hub. Under a bed in the room, they found two 
soldiers taking shelter. 
The gunmen shot both dead. 
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 39 of 69
 
 
 
40 
 
 This sequence was captured on a camera mounted on the head of a 
gunman who was later killed. The New York Times reviewed the 
footage, then verified the events by interviewing Israeli officials and 
checking Israeli military video of the attack as well. 
They provide chilling details of how Hamas, the militia that controls 
the Gaza Strip, managed to surprise and outmaneuver the most 
powerful military in the Middle East last Saturday — storming 
across the border, overrunning more than 30 square miles, taking more than 150 hostages and killing more than 1,300 people in the 
deadliest day for Israel in its 75-year history. 
With meticulous planning and extraordinary awareness of Israel’s 
secrets and weaknesses, Hamas and its allies overwhelmed the 
length of Israel’s front with Gaza shortly after dawn, shocking a 
nation that has long taken the superiority of its military as an  article 
of faith. 
Using drones, Hamas destroyed key surveillance and 
communications towers along the border with Gaza,  imposing vast 
blind spots on the Israeli military . With explosives and tractors, 
Hamas blew open gaps in the border barricades, allowing 200 
attackers to pour through in the first wave and another 1,800 later 
that day, officials say. On motorcycles and in pickup trucks, the 
assailants surged into Israel, overwhelming at least eight military 
bases and waging terrorist attacks against civilians in more than 15 
villages and cities. 
114. The synthetic output displays significantly more expressive content from the 
original article than what would traditionally be displayed in a Bing search result for the same 
article, as shown below. Unlike a traditional search result, the synthetic output also does not include 
a prominent hyperlink that sends users to The Times’s website. 
 
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 40 of 69
 
 
 
41 
 
 115. A further example shows Bing Chat extensively reproducing text from the 
September 2023 New York Times article “To Experience Paris Up Close and Personal, Plunge Into 
a Public Pool”:32 
 
 
116. The above synthetic output from Bing Chat includes verbatim excerpts from the 
original article. The copied article text is highlighted in red below.  
 
32 For original article , see Catherine Porter , To Experience Paris Up Close and Personal, Plunge Into a 
Public Pool , N.Y.  TIMES (Sept. 3, 2023), https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/03/world/europe/paris -france -
swimming -pools.html .  
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 41 of 69
 
 
 
42 
 
 I slip into the water and push off quickly before the man swimming 
like a breast-stroking porpoise gets any closer. Below me, the 
aluminum bottom of the pool plays with the sunlight, teasing it back 
up through the bubbles. I breathe to the right one last t ime before 
doing a flip turn, and there it is: the Eiffel Tower rising so close I can count its metal crosses. The pool windows offer an unobstructed, third-story view. 
Swimming in Paris is a full-on cultural experience. Many public 
pools don’t just feel like historical monuments, they are historical 
monuments. Backstroking beneath the buttresses stretching across 
the vaulted ceiling of the 99 -year -old Butte-aux-Cailles pool feels 
like backstroking through a cathedral.  
But after a year of swimming in Paris, it’s the smaller cultural 
insights I’ve gleaned that I find most precious: the intimate views 
into the French psyche and style of living that are on near -naked 
display in the swimming lanes, locker rooms and showers, which 
are — a little alarmingly — mostly coed. 
I have been a swimmer since I was a kid. I competed on my high 
school team and for a year in college. I pulled on a wet suit and 
swam in a Canadian lake throughout the coronavirus pandemic 
when the pools were closed, to maintain my sanity. It’s my form of 
exercise and stress release. 
So when I moved to Paris last August, I quickly developed a to-visit 
list of public pools across the city, many dating from the 1930s, 
during the height of the Art Deco architectural craze. They’re 
stunning. 
117. The synthetic output displays significantly more expressive content from the 
original article than what would traditionally be displayed in a Bing search result for the same 
article, as shown below. Unlike a traditional search result, the synthetic output also does not include 
a prominent hyperlink that sends users to The Times’s website. Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 42 of 69
 
 
 
43 
 
  
b) Synthetic Search Results from ChatGPT Browse with Bing  
118. The below examples show that ChatGPT’s  Browse with Bing plug-in also outputs 
unauthorized copies and derivatives of copyrighted works from The Times in the form of synthetic 
search results generated from Times Works that first appeared after the April 2023 cutoff for data used to train OpenAI’s latest GPT -4 Turbo LLM. The first reproduces the first two paragraphs of 
the May 2023 New York Times article “The Precarious, Terrifying Hours After a Woman Was Shoved Into a Train”:
33 
 
 
33 For original content, see Hurubie Meko,  The Precarious, Terrifying Hours After a Woman Was Shoved 
Into a Train , N.Y. TIMES (May 25, 2023),  https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/25/nyregion/subway -attack- woman -
shoved -manhattan.html . 
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 43 of 69
 
 
 
44 
 
  
119. The above synthetic output from ChatGPT with the Browse with Bing plugin 
includes verbatim excerpts from the original article . The copied article text is highlighted in red 
below. 
For days after Emine Yilmaz Ozsoy was shoved against a speeding 
subway train on her way to work, she lay in intensive care at 
NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center. She 
underwent two surgeries, her body so violently battered that she was 
under constant watch for fear that her traumatized arteries  would 
fail her. 
On Thursday, Ms. Ozsoy remained partially paralyzed, but was 
gathering strength, testing her remaining mobility and cognizant of 
everything that had happened to her since early Sunday morning 
when a man thrust her head into the train as it pulled out of th e 
Lexington Avenue/63rd Street station.  
“At this moment, her journey is a very scary journey,” her husband, Ferdi Ozsoy, said in an interview. 
120. The synthetic output displays significantly more expressive content from the 
original article than what would traditionally be displayed in a Bing search result for the same 
article as shown below. Unlike a traditional search result, the synthetic output a lso does not include 
a prominent hyperlink that sends users to The Times’s website.  
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 44 of 69
 
 
 
45 
 
  
121. This example likewise shows Browse with Bing for ChatGPT reproducing the first 
two paragraphs of The New York Times article “Are the Hamptons Still Hip?” from May 2023.34 
 
 
 
34 For original article , see Anna Kodé, Are the Hamptons Still Hip? , N.Y . T IMES (May 26, 2023),  
https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/26/realestate/hamptons -summer -housing- costs.html .  
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 45 of 69
 
 
 
46 
 
 122. The above synthetic output from ChatGPT with the Browse with Bing plugin 
includes verbatim excerpts from the original article . The copied article text is highlighted in red 
below. 
For years, the Hamptons were a hot summer destination for young, 
up-and-coming New Yorkers and the old and new moneyed alike. It 
was a place to see and be seen. Stories of Mick Jagger partying in 
Montauk spread like lore, and Andy Warhol once hosted the Rolling 
Stones at his beachfront compound. It wasn’t uncommon for young 
college graduates in the city to save up and pool together to rent a 
summer house and get a taste of the glamour.  
In a 1999 interview with New York Magazine, Jay -Z put it simply: 
“I mean, the Hamptons is cool.” 
The Hamptons still have a mythological reputation, fueled by the 
celebrity cachet that comes with square footage, seclusion and ocean 
waves. “Kaia Gerber, Ina Garten and Diplo walk into a bar — that 
is to say, the Hamptons holds a certain, je ne sais quoi? Where else 
would these mega names be in the same sentence?” said Jacob Rutledge, a 22-year -old model and content creator.  
But the Hamptons are not what they once were. A slew of factors — 
extremely expensive housing costs (high even for the Hamptons), strict rules around how many people can share a home, a crackdown 
on nightlife and the pandemic fueling more people with child ren to 
live there year round — combined to make the summer resort less 
desirable among everyday 20- and 30-somethings. 
Despite his instinct to marvel at the Long Island refuge, Mr. 
Rutledge, who lives in Ridgewood, Queens, isn’t going out to the 
Hamptons this summer. Instead, he’ll be close by at Fire Island.  
123. Again, the synthetic output displays significantly more expressive content from the 
original article than what would traditionally be displayed in a Bing search result for the same 
article, as shown below. Unlike a traditional search result, the synthetic output also does not include 
a prominent hyperlink that sends users to The Times’s website.  Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 46 of 69
 
 
 
47 
 
  
5. Willful Infringement  
124. Defendants’ unauthorized reproduction and display of Times Works is willful. 
Defendants were intimately involved in training, fine -tuning, and otherwise testing the GPT 
models. Defendants knew or should have known that these actions involved unauthorized copying 
of Times Works on a massive scale during training, resulted in the unauthorized encoding of huge 
numbers of such works in the models themselves, and would inevitably result in the unauthorized 
display of such works that the models had either memoriz ed or would present to users in the form 
of synthetic search results. In fact, in late 2023 before his ouster and subsequent reinstatement as 
OpenAI’s  CEO, Sam Altman reportedly clashed with OpenAI board member Helen Toner over a 
paper that Toner wrote criticizing the company over “safety and ethics issues related to the 
launches of ChatGPT and GPT -4, including regarding copyright is sues.”  
125. The Times specifically put Defendants on notice that these uses of Times Works 
were not authorized by placing copyright notices and linking to its terms of service (which contain, 
among other things, terms and conditions for the use of its works) on every page of its websites 
whose contents Defendants copied and displayed. Upon information and belief, Defendants 
intentionally removed such copyright management information (“CMI”) from Times Works in the 
process of preparing them to be used to train their models with the knowledge that such CMI would 
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 47 of 69
 
 
 
48 
 
 not be retained within the models or displayed when the models present unauthorized copies or 
derivatives of Times Works to users, and thereby facilitate or conceal their infringement .  
126. Upon information and belief, Defendants were aware of many examples of 
copyright infringement after ChatGPT , Browse with Bing, and Bing Chat were released , some of 
which were widely publicized. In fact, after the release of ChatGPT and Bing Chat, The Times 
reached out to Defendants to inform them that their tools infringed its copyrighted works.  
D. Misappropriation of Commercial Referrals 
127. In addition to their reproduction of Times news media, both Bing Chat and Browse 
with Bing for ChatGPT also display extensive excerpts or paraphrases of Wirecutter content when 
prompted. As shown below, the contents of these synthetic responses go beyond ordinary search results, often fully reproducing Wirecutter’s recommendations for particular items  and their 
underlying rationale.  
128. Wirecutter generates the vast majority of its revenue via affiliate referral. 
Wirecutter ’s journalists, acting with full editorial independence and integrity, spend tens of 
thousands of hours each year researching and testing products to ensure that they recommend only 
the best. Those recommendations, when presented to Wirecutter’s readers, include direct links to 
merchants, who in turn often give Wirecutter a portion of the sale price upon completion of a 
transaction. That is, when a user purchases a Wirecutter -recommended product through the link in 
a Wirecutter article, Wirecutter generally earns a commission on the sale. Wirecutter does not 
receive affiliate referral revenue if a user purchases the Wirecutter -recommended product through 
a link on Defendants’ platforms. As with The Times’s other products, decreases in traffic to 
Wirecutter also impact its advertising and subscription revenue. Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 48 of 69
 
 
 
49 
 
 129. Detailed synthetic search results that effectively reproduce Wirecutter 
recommendations create less incentive for users to navigate to the original source. Decreased 
traffic to Wirecutter articles, and in turn, decreased traffic to affiliate links, subsequ ently lead to a 
loss of revenue for Wirecutter. A user who already knows Wirecutter’s recommendations for the best cordless stick vacuum, and the basis for those recommendations, has little reason to visit the 
original Wirecutter article and click on the l inks within its site. In this way, Defendants’ generative 
AI products directly and unfairly compete with Times content and usurp commercial opportunities from The Times.  
130. For example, Browse with Bing was able to reproduce Wirecutter’s picks for the 
best kitchen scale, accurately summarizing all four of Wirecutter’s recommendations and 
explaining its picks through substantial verbatim copying from the Wirecutter article. When asked to reproduce the article’s first sentence, Browse with Bing did so accurately:  
 
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 49 of 69
 
 
 
50 
 
  
131. Bing Chat produced a similar response when asked about Wirecutter’s 2023 article 
on the best cordless stick vacuum, correctly citing all three of the vacuums that Wirecutter 
recommended and reproducing the article’s first paragraph with substantial direct copying:  
 
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 50 of 69
 
 
 
51 
 
 132. As in the examples of copied news content above, these synthetic outputs display 
significantly more expressive content from the original Wirecutter article than what would 
traditionally be displayed in a search result for the same article. Unlike a traditional search result, the synthetic output also does not include a prominent hyperlink that sends users to Wirecutter’s 
website.  
133. Users rely on Wirecutter for high-quality, well-researched recommendations, and 
Wirecutter’s brand is damaged by incidents that erode consumer trust and fuel a perception that Wirecutter’s recommendations are unreliable.  
134. In response to a query regarding Wirecutter’s recommendations for the best office 
chair, GPT -4 not only reproduced the top four Wirecutter recommendations, but it also 
recommended the “La-Z-Boy Trafford Big & Tall Executive Chair” and the “Fully Balans Chair”—neither of which appears in Wirecutter’s recommendations —and falsely attributed these 
recommendations to Wirecutter: 
 
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 51 of 69
 
 
 
52 
 
  
135. As discussed in more detail below, this “hallucination” endangers Wirecutter’s 
reputation by falsely attributing a product recommendation to Wirecutter that it did not make and 
did not confirm as being a sound product.   E. “Hallucinations” Falsely Attributed to The Times  
136. At the same time as Defendants’ models are copying, reproducing, and 
paraphrasing Times content without consent or compensation, they are also causing The Times 
commercial and competitive injury by misattributing content to The Times that i t did not, in fact, 
publish. In AI parlance, this is called a “hallucination.” In plain English, it’s misinformation.  
137. ChatGPT defines a “hallucination” as “the phenomenon of a machine, such as a 
chatbot, generating seemingly realistic sensory experiences that do not correspond to any real -
world input.”
35 Instead of saying, “I don’t know,” Defendants’ GPT models will confidently 
provide information that is, at best, not quite accurate and, at worst, demonstrably (but not recognizably) false. And human reviewers find it very difficult to distinguish “halluc inations” from 
truthful output. 
138. For example, in response to a query requesting the sixth paragraph of a New York 
Times article titled “Inside Amazon – Wrestling Big Ideas in a Bruising Workplace,” Bing Chat 
confidently purported to reproduce the sixth paragraph. Had Bing Chat actually do ne so, it would 
 
35 Hussam Alkaissi  & Samy I McFarlan , Artificial Hallucinations in ChatGPT: Implications in Scientific 
Writing , CUREUS  (Feb. 19, 2023) , ehttps://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9939079/ . 
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 52 of 69
 
 
 
53 
 
 have committed copyright infringement. But in this instance, Bing Chat completely fabricated a 
paragraph, including specific quotes attributed to Steve Forbes’s daughter Moira Forbes, that appear nowhere in The Times article in question or anywhere else on  the internet.  
 
 
139. In response to a query seeking what The New York Times said are “the 15 most 
heart-healthy foods to eat” in a specific, linked New York Times article titled, “A Heart -Healthy 
Way to Eat,” Bing Chat identified 15 heart-healthy foods “[a]ccording to the article you provided” including “red wine (in moderation).” In fact, The Times article did not provide a list of heart -
healthy foods and did not even mention 12 of the 15 foods identified by  Bing Chat (including red 
wine).
36 
 
 
36 In fact, The Times ’s latest reporting concludes that red wine is not heart -healthy. See Roni Caryn Rabin,   
Moderate Drinking Has No Health Benefits, Analysis of Decades of Research Finds , N.Y.  TIMES (Apr. 4, 2023), 
https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/04/health/alcohol -health- effects.html . 
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 53 of 69
 
 
 
54 
 
  
 
140. In response to a prompt requesting an informative essay about major newspapers’ 
reporting that orange juice is linked to non -Hodgkin’s lymphoma, a GPT  model completely 
fabricated that “The New York Times published an article on January 10, 2020, titled ‘Study Finds 
Possible Link between Orange Juice and Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma.’”  The Times never published such an article.  
 
Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 54 of 69
 
 
 
55 
 
 141. In response to a query asking for New York Times articles about the Covid-19 
Pandemic, ChatGPT’s  API returned a response with fabricated article titles and hyperlinks that 
purport to have been published by The Times. The Times never published articles with these titles , 
and the hyperlinks do not point to a live website.    
"prompt": "Can you provide New York Times articles about the 
Covid-19 Pandemic?", 
. . . "text": "\n\n1. "The U.S. Faces a Dark Winter as Covid-19 Cases 
Soar" https://www.nytimes.com/2020/11/19/us/covid-cases -
hospitalizations.html\n\n2. "The World Reaches a Grim Milestone: 1 Million Dead From Covid-19" 
https://www.nytimes.com/2020/09/28/world/coronavirus-death-
toll.html\n\n3. "Covid-19 Vaccines Are Coming. Here's What We 
Know." 
https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/science/coronavirus -
vaccine-tracker.html\n\n4. "A Year of Pandemic Living in Photos" https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/03 /11/world/covid-19-
coronavirus-photos.html\n\n5. "Covid-19 Shatters the Lives of Young Adults" https://www.nytimes.com/2020/09/22/health/covid -
young-adults-mental-health.html" 
142. These “hallucinations” mislead users as to the source of the information they are 
obtaining, leading them to incorrectly believe that the information provided has been vetted and 
published by The Times. Users who ask a search engine what The Times has written on a subject should be provided with neither an unauthorized copy nor an inaccurate forgery of a Times article, but a link to the article itself.  
F. Profit to Defendants 
143. Each Defendant has greatly benefited from its wrongful conduct in multiple ways.  
144. Each Defendant has reaped substantial savings by taking and using —at no cost—
New York Times content to create their LLMs. Times journalism is the work of thousands of 
journalists, whose employment costs hundreds of millions of dollars per year. Each Defendant has Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 55 of 69
 
 
 
56 
 
 wrongfully benefited from nearly a century of that work —some performed in harm’s way—that 
remains protected by copyright law. Defendants have effectively avoided spending the billions of 
dollars that The Times invested in creating that work by taking it without permission or 
compensation. 
145. Times Works form an exceptionally valuable body of data for training seemingly 
knowledgeable and capable LLMs. Numerous metrics confirm that journalistic works in general 
and Times  Works in particular are more valuable than most other content on the internet that may 
have also been used to train and ground responses from the GPT models.  
146. Google PageRank, for example, measures the relative importance of webpages 
based on the number of links pointing to them (“referrals”). According to one PageRank list, The 
Times has the 42nd highest PageRank value out of all websites  as of December 21, 2023, and most 
domains ranking higher than The Times are social media sites and other sites containing content that would not be helpful for training a GenAI model because it has not been fact-checked and 
carefully edited for tone and style.
37 As of December 21, 2023, the only text-based content sites 
ranking above The Times are Wikipedia, Wordpress, and Medium.38 
147. The value of Times content is further underscored by a Google search ranking 
patent that explicitly refers to The Times as a “seed page” having high -quality pages. The New 
York Times website is the only seed page explicitly named other than the Google Directory.39 
148. Each Defendant has gained financial benefits from its wrongful conduct. 
 
37 Top 10 Million Websites , DOMCOP, https://www .domcop.com/top -10-million -websites  (last visited Dec. 
21, 2023). 
38 Id.  
39 U.S. Patent No. 9,165,040 (filed Oct. 20, 2015 ).  Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 56 of 69
 
 
 
57 
 
 149. In April 2023, ChatGPT had approximately 173 million users.40 A subset of those 
users pay for ChatGPT Plus, for which OpenAI charges users $20 per month.41 When announcing 
the release of ChatGPT Enterprise, a subscription-based high-capability GPT -4 application 
targeted at corporate clients, in August 2023, OpenAI claimed that teams in “over 80% of Fortune 
500 companies” were using its products.42  
150. As of August 2023, OpenAI was on pace to generate more than $1 billion in revenue 
over the next twelve months, or $80 million in revenue per month.43 
151. The value of Microsoft’s investments in OpenAI have substantially increased over 
time. Microsoft initially invested $1 billion in OpenAI in 2019, an investment that one publication has said may be “one of the shrewdest bets in tech history.”
44 In 2021, OpenAI was valued at $14 
billion; just two years later, in early 2023, it was valued at approximately $29 billion.45 Microsoft 
eventually increased its investment in OpenAI to a reported $13 billion. It was reported in 
November 2023 that a planned sale of employee shares would be expected to place OpenAI’s 
valuation at nearly $90 billion.46 
 
40 Nerdynav, 107 Up -to-Date  ChatGPT Statistics & User Numbers [Dec 2023] , NERDYNAV , 
https://nerdynav.com/chatgpt -statistics/  (last updated Dec. 6, 2023).  
41 OpenAI, Introducing ChatGPT Plus , OPENAI (Feb. 1, 2023), https://openai.com/blog/chatgpt -plus. 
42 Introducing ChatGPT Enterprise , supra note 5.  
43 Amir Efrati & Aaron Holmes , OpenAI Passes $1 Billion Revenue Pace as Big Companies Boost AI 
Spending, T HE INFORMATION  (Aug. 29, 2023), https://www.theinformation.com/articles/openai -passes -1-billion -
revenue -pace-as-big-companies -boost -ai-spending . 
44 Hasan Chowdhury , Microsoft's Investment into ChatGPT's Creator May Be the Smartest $1 Billion Ever 
Spent , BUSINESS INSIDER  (Jan. 6, 2023), https://www.businessinsider.com/microsoft- openai -investment -the-
smartest- 1-billion -ever-spent -2023- 1. 
45 Phil Rosen , ChatGPT's Creator OpenAI Has Doubled in Value Since 2021 as the Language Bot Goes 
Viral and Microsoft Pours in $10 Billion, B USINESS INSIDER  (Jan. 24, 2023), 
https://markets.businessinsider.com/news/stocks/chatgpt- openai -valuation- bot-microsoft -language- google- tech-
stock -funding -2023-
1#:~:text=In%202021%2C%20the%20tech%20firm,%2410%20billion%20investment%20in%20OpenAI.  
46 Aditya Soni , Microsoft Emerges as Big Winner from OpenAI Turmoil , REUTERS  (Nov. 20, 2023), 
https://www.reuters.com/technology/microsoft -emerges -big-winner -openai -turmoil -with-altman -board -2023- 11-20/. Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 57 of 69
 
 
 
58 
 
 152. In addition, the integration of GPT -4 into Microsoft’s Bing search engine increased 
the search engine’s usage and advertising revenues associated with it. Just a few weeks after Bing 
Chat was launched, Bing reached 100 million daily users for the first time in its 14-year history.47 
Similarly, page visits on Bing rose 15.8% in the first approximately six weeks after Bing Chat was unveiled.
48 
153. Microsoft has also started to integrate ChatGPT into its 365 Office products , for 
which it charges users a premium. Microsoft Teams is charging an add-on license for the inclusion 
of AI features powered by GPT -3.5.49 Microsoft is also charging $30 per user per month for 
Microsoft 365 Copilot, a tool powered by GPT-4 that is designed to assist with the creation of 
documents, emails, presentations, and more.50 That $30 per user per month premium will nearly 
double the cost for businesses subscribed to Microsoft 365 E3, and will nearly triple the cost for those subscribed to Microsoft 365 Business Standard.
51  
G. Harm to The Times  
154. Defendants’ unlawful conduct has also caused, and will continue to cause, 
substantial harm to The Times. The Times invests enormous resources in creating its content to inform its readers, who in turn purchase subscriptions or engage with The Times’s websites and 
 
47 Tom Warren, Microsoft Bing Hits 100 Million Active Users in Bid to Grab Share from Google , THE 
VERGE  (Mar. 9, 2023), https://www.theverge.com/2023/3/9/23631912/microsoft -bing- 100-million -daily- active-
users -milestone . 
48 Akash Sriram and Chavi Mehta , OpenAI Tech Gives Microsoft's Bing a Boost in Search Battle with 
Google , REUTERS  (Mar. 22, 2023), https://www.reuters.com/technology/openai -tech-gives -microsofts -bing- boost -
search- battle- with-google- 2023- 03-22/. 
49 Tom Warren, Microsoft Launches Teams Premium with Features Powered by OpenAI , THE VERGE  (Feb. 
2, 2023), https://www.theverge.com/2023/2/2/23582610/microsoft -teams -premium -openai -gpt-features . 
50 Tom Warren, Microsoft Announces Copilot: The AI -Powered Future of Office Documents , THE VERGE  
(Mar. 16, 2023), https://www.theverge.com/2023/3/16/23642833/microsoft -365-ai-copilot -word -outlook -teams ; Tom 
Warren, Microsoft  Puts a Steep P rice on Copilot, Its AI-Powered Future of Office Docum ents, THE VERGE  (July 18, 
2023), https://www.theverge.com/2023/7/18/23798627/microsoft -365-copilot -price -commercial -enterprise.  
51 Microsoft Announces Copilot: The AI -Powered Future of Office Documents , supra  note 49.  Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 58 of 69
 
 
 
59 
 
 mobile applications  in other ways that generate revenue. Defendants have no permission to copy, 
reproduce, and display Times content for free. 
155. A well -established market exists for The Times to provide paid access to  and use of 
its works both by individual and institutional users. Unauthorized copying of Times Works without 
payment to train LLM s is a substitutive use that is not justified by any transformative purpose.  
156. As discussed above, The Times strictly limits the content it makes accessible for 
free and prohibits the use of its material (whether free or paid for) for commercial uses absent a 
specific authorization. Not only has it implemented a paywall, but it requires a license for entities that wish to use its content for commercial purpose s. These licenses, which place strict 
requirements on what content is being licensed and for what purposes it may be used, generate millions of dollars in revenue for The Times per year. Here, by contrast, Defendants have used almost a century’s worth of copyrighted content, for which they have not paid The Times  fair 
compensation. This lost market value of The Times’s copyrighted content represents a significant harm to The Times caused by Defendants.  
157. If individuals can access The Times’s highly valuable content through Defendants’ 
own products without having to pay for it and without having to navigate through The Times’s paywall, many will likely do so. Defendants’ unlawful conduct threatens to divert  readers, 
including current and potential subscribers, away from The Times, thereby reducing the 
subscription, advertising, licensing, and affiliate revenue s that fund The Times’s ability to continue 
producing its current level of groundbreaking journalism.  Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 59 of 69
 
 
 
60 
 
 COUNT I: Copyright Infringement (17 U.S.C. § 501) 
Against All Defendants 
158. The Times incorporates by reference and realleges the preceding allegations as 
though fully set forth herein.  
159. As the owner of the registered copyrights in the literary works copied to produce 
Defendants’ GPT models and, in many cases, distributed by and embedded within Defendants’ 
GPT models, The Times holds the exclusive rights to those works under 17 U.S.C. § 106. 
160.  By building training datasets containing millions of copies of Times Works, 
including by scraping copyrighted Times Works from The Times’s websites and reproducing such 
works from third-party datasets, the OpenAI Defendants have directly infringed The Times’s 
exclusive rights in its copyrighted works. 
161. By storing, processing, and reproducing the training datasets containing millions of 
copies of Times Works to train the GPT models on Microsoft’s supercomputing platform, 
Microsoft and the OpenAI Defendants have jointly directly infringed The Times’s exclusive rights in its copyrighted works.  
162. On information and belief, by storing, processing, and reproducing the GPT models 
trained on Times Works, which GPT models themselves have memorized, on Microsoft’s 
supercomputing platform, Microsoft and the OpenAI Defendants have jointly directly infringed The Times’s exclusive rights in its copyrighted works. 
163. By disseminating generative output containing copies and derivatives of Times 
Works through the ChatGPT offerings, the OpenAI Defendants have directly infringed The 
Times’s exclusive rights in its copyrighted works .  Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 60 of 69
 
 
 
61 
 
 164. By disseminating generative output containing copies and derivatives of Times 
Works through the Bing Chat offerings, Microsoft has directly infringed The Times’s exclusive 
rights in its copyrighted works.  
165. On information and belief, Defendants’ infringing conduct alleged herein was and 
continues to be willful and carried out with full knowledge of The Times’s rights in the copyrighted 
works. As a direct result of their conduct, Defendants have wrongfully profited from copyrighted 
works that they do not own. 
166. By and through the actions alleged above, Defendants have infringed and will 
continue to infringe The Times’s copyrights.  
167. As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ infringing conduct alleged herein, 
The Times has sustained and will continue to sustain substantial, immediate, and irreparable injury 
for which there is no adequate remedy at law. Unless Defendants’  infringing conduct is enjoined 
by this Court, Defendants have demonstrated an intent to continue to infringe the copyrighted 
works. The Times therefore is entitled to permanent injunctive relief restraining and enjoining Defendants’ ongoing infringing conduct. 
168. The Times is further entitled to recover statutory damages, actual damages, 
restitution of profits, attorneys’ fees, and other remedies provided by law. 
COUNT II: Vicarious Copyright Infringement 
Against Microsoft, OpenAI Inc., OpenAI GP, OpenAI LP, OAI Corporation LLC,  
OpenAI Holdings LLC, and OpenAI Global LLC 
169. The Times incorporates by reference and realleges the preceding allegations as 
though fully set forth herein. 
170. Microsoft controlled, directed, and profited from the infringement perpetrated by 
the OpenAI Defendants. Microsoft controls and directs the supercomputing platform used to store, Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 61 of 69
 
 
 
62 
 
 process, and reproduce the training datasets containing millions of Times Works, the GPT models, 
and OpenAI’s ChatGPT offerings. Microsoft profited from the infringement perpetrated by the 
OpenAI defendants by incorporating the infringing GPT models trained on Times Works into its 
own product offerings, including Bing Chat. 
171. Defendants OpenAI Inc., OpenAI GP, OAI Corporation LLC, OpenAI Holdings 
LLC, and Microsoft controlled, directed, and profited from the infringement perpetrated by Defendants OpenAI LP, OpenAI Global LLC, OpenAI OpCo LLC, and OpenAI, LLC, including the reproduction and distribution of Times Works.  
172. Defendants OpenAI Global LLC and OpenAI LP directed, controlled, and profited 
from the infringement perpetrated by Defendants OpenAI OpCo LLC and OpenAI, LLC, including the reproduction and distribution of Times Works. 
173. Defendants OpenAI Inc., OpenAI LP, OAI Corporation LLC, OpenAI Holdings 
LLC, OpenAI Global LLC, and Microsoft are vicariously liable for copyright infringement.  
COUNT III: Contributory Copyright Infringement 
Against Microsoft 
174. The Times incorporates by reference and realleges the preceding allegations as 
though fully set forth herein. 
175. Microsoft materially contributed to and directly assisted in the direct infringement 
attributable to the OpenAI Defendants .  
176. Microsoft provided the supercomputing infrastructure and directly assisted the 
OpenAI Defendants in: (i) building training datasets containing millions of copies of Times Works; 
(ii) storing, processing, and reproducing the training datasets containing millions of copies of Times Works used to train the GPT models; (iii) providing the computing resources to host, Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 62 of 69
 
 
 
63 
 
 operate, and commercialize the GPT models and GenAI products; and (iv) providing the Browse 
with Bing plug-in to facilitate infringement and generate infringing output. 
177. Microsoft knew or had reason to know of the direct infringement perpetrated by the 
OpenAI Defendants because Microsoft and OpenAI’s partnership extends to the development, 
commercialization, and monetization of the OpenAI Defendants’ GPT -based products. Microsoft 
was fully aware of the capabilities of OpenAI’s GPT -based products. 
COUNT IV: Contributory Copyright Infringement 
Against All Defendants 
178. The Times incorporates by reference and realleges the preceding allegations as 
though fully set forth herein. 
179. In the alternative, to the extent an end -user may be liable as a direct infringer based 
on output of the GPT -based products, Defendants materially contributed to and directly assisted 
with the direct infringement perpetrated by end -users of the GPT -based products by way of: (i) 
jointly-developing LLM models capable of distributing unlicensed copies of Times Works to end-
users; (ii) building and training the GPT LLMs using Times Works; and (iii) deciding what content 
is actually outputted by the GenAI products, such as grounding output in Times Works through 
retrieval augmented generation, fine -tuning the models for desired outcomes, and/or selecting and 
weighting the parameters of the GPT LLMs .  
180. Defendants knew or had reason to know of the direct infringement by end -users 
because Defendants undertake extensive efforts in developing, testing, and troubleshooting their LLM models and GPT -based products. Defendants are fully aware that their GPT -based products 
are capable of distributing unlicensed copies or derivatives of copyrighted Times Works.  
 Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 63 of 69
 
 
 
64 
 
 COUNT V: Digital Millennium Copyright Act – Removal of Copyright Management 
Information (17 U.S.C. § 1202) 
Against All Defendants 
181. The Times incorporates by reference and realleges the preceding allegations as 
though fully set forth herein.  
182. The Times included one or more forms of copyright -management information in 
each of The Times’s infringed works, including: copyright notice, title and other identifying 
information, terms and conditions of use, and identifying numbers or symbols referring to the 
copyright-management information. 
183. Without The Times’s authority, Defendants copied The Times’s works and used 
them as training data for their GenAI models.  
184. Upon information and belief, Defendants removed The Times’s copyright -
management information in building the training datasets containing millions of copies of Times 
Works, including removing The Times’s copyright-management information from Times Works 
scraped directly from The Times’s websites and removing The Times’s copyright-management 
information from Times Works reproduced from third-party datasets. 
185. Upon information and belief, Microsoft and OpenAI  removed The Times’s 
copyright-management information through generating synthetic search results , including 
removing The Times’s copyright-management information when scraping Times Works from The 
Times’s websites and generating copies or derivatives of Times Works as output for the Browse 
with Bing and Bing Chat offerings. 
186. Microsoft and OpenAI removed The Times’s copyright-management information 
in generating outputs from the GPT models containing copies or derivatives of Times Works.  Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 64 of 69
 
 
 
65 
 
 187. By design, the training process does not preserve any copyright-management 
information, and the outputs of Defendants’ GPT models removed any copyright notices, titles, 
and identifying information, despite the fact that those outputs were often verbatim re productions 
of Times content. Therefore, Defendants intentionally removed copyright -management 
information from The Times’s works in violation of 17 U.S.C. § 1202(b)(1). 
188. Defendants’ removal or alteration of The Times's copyright-management 
information has been done knowingly and with the intent to induce, enable, facilitate, or conceal infringement of The Times’s copyrights. 
189. Without The Times’s authority, Defendants created  copies and derivative works 
based on The Times’s works. By distributing these works without their copyright-management 
information, Defendants violated 17 U.S.C. § 1202(b)(3). 
190. Defendants knew or had reasonable grounds to know that their removal of 
copyright-management information would facilitate copyright infringement by concealing the fact that the GPT models are infringing copyrighted works and that output from the GPT models are 
infringing copies and derivative works. 
191. The Times has been injured by Defendants’ removal of copyright -management 
information. The Times is entitled to statutory damages, actual damages, restitution of profits, and other remedies provided by law, including full costs and attorneys’ fees.  
COUNT VI: Common Law Unfair Competition By Misappropriation 
Against All Defendants 
192. The Times incorporates by reference and realleges the preceding allegations as 
though fully set forth herein.  Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 65 of 69
 
 
 
66 
 
 193. The Times gathers information, which often takes the form of time-sensitive 
breaking news, for its content at a substantial cost to The Times . Wirecutter likewise compiles and 
produces time-sensitive recommendations for readers.  
194. By offering content that is created by GenAI but is the same or similar to content 
published by The Times, Defendants’ GPT models directly compete with Times  content. 
Defendants’ use of Times  content encoded within models and live Times content processed by 
models produces outputs that usurp specific commercial opportunities of The Times, such as the 
revenue generated by Wirecutter recommendations.  For example, Defendants have not only copied 
Times content, but also altered the content by removing links to the products, thereby depriving 
The Times of the opportunity to receive referral revenue and appropriating that opportunity for 
Defendants. 
195. Defendants’ use of Times content to train models that produce informative text of 
the same general type and kind that The Times produces competes with Times content for traffic. 
196. Defendants’ use of Times content without The Times’s consent to train Defendants ’ 
GenAI models constitutes free-riding on The Times’s significant efforts and investment of human 
capital to gather this information. 
197. Defendants’  misuse and misappropriation of Times  content has caused The Times 
to suffer actual damages from the deprivation of the benefits of its work , such as, without 
limitation, lost advertising and affiliate referral revenue . 
COUNT VII: Trademark Dilution (15 U.S.C. § 1125(c)) 
Against All Defendants 
198. The Times incorporates by reference and realleges the preceding allegations as 
though fully set forth herein. Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 66 of 69
 
 
 
67 
 
 199. The Times is the owner of several federally registered trademarks, including U.S. 
Registration No. 5,912,366 for the trademark “The New York Times,” as well as the marks 
“nytimes” (U.S. Reg. No. 3,934,613), and “nytimes.com” (U.S. Reg. No. 3,934,612). 
200. The Times’s trademarks are distinctive and famous.  
201. Defendants have, in connection with the commerce of producing GenAI to users 
for profit throughout the United States, including in New York, engaged in the unauthorized use 
of The Times’s trademarks in outputs generated by Defendants’ GPT -based products. 
202. Defendants’ unauthorized use of The Times’s marks on lower quality and inaccurate 
writing dilutes the quality of The Times’s trademarks by tarnishment in violation of 15 U.S.C § 1125(c). 
203. Defendants are aware that their GPT -based products produce inaccurate content that 
is falsely attributed to The Times and yet continue to profit commercially from creating and attributing inaccurate content to The Times. As such, Defendants have intentiona lly violated 15 
U.S.C § 1125(c). 
204. As an actual and proximate result of the unauthorized use of The Times’s 
trademarks, The Times has suffered and continues to suffer harm by, among other things, damaging 
its reputation for accuracy, originality, and quality, which has and will continue to cause it economic loss. 
PRAYER FOR RELIEF 
 WHEREFORE, The Times demands judgment against each Defendant as follows:  
1. Awarding The Times statutory damages, compensatory damages, restitution, 
disgorgement, and any other relief that may be permitted by law or equity;  Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 67 of 69
 
 
 
68 
 
 2. Permanently enjoining Defendants from the unlawful, unfair, and infringing 
conduct alleged herein; 
3. Ordering destruction under 17 U.S.C. § 503(b) of all GPT  or other LLM models 
and training sets that incorporate Times Works;  
4. An award of costs, expenses, and attorneys’ fees as permitted by law; and 
5. Such other or further relief as the Court may deem appropriate, just, and equitable.  
DEMAND FOR JURY TRIAL 
The Times hereby demands a jury trial for all claims so triable.  
 
 
Dated: December 27, 2023   /s/ Elisha Barron    
Ian Crosby (pro hac vice forthcoming) S
USMAN GODFREY L.L.P.   
401 Union Street, Suite 3000 Seattle, WA 98101 
Telephone: (206) 516-3880 
Facsimile: (206) 516-3883 
icrosby@susmangodfrey.com  
Davida Brook (pro hac vice forthcoming) 
Ellie Dupler (pro hac vice forthcoming) 
S
USMAN GODFREY L.L.P. 
1900 Ave of the Stars, Suite 1400 Los Angeles, CA 90067 
Telephone: (310) 789-3100 
Facsimile: (310) 789-3150 
dbrook@susmangodfrey.com 
edupler@susmangodfrey.com 
 
Elisha Barron (5036850) 
Tamar Lusztig (5125174) 
S
USMAN GODFREY L.L.P. 
1301 Avenue of the Americas, 32nd Floor New York, NY 10019 
Telephone: (212) 336-8330 
Facsimile: (212) 336-8340 
ebarron@susmangodfrey.com 
tlusztig@susmangodfrey.com 
 Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 68 of 69
 
 
 
69 
 
 Steven Lieberman (SL8687) 
Jennifer B. Maisel (5096995) 
Kristen J. Logan (pro hac vice forthcoming) 
ROTHWELL , FIGG, ERNST & MANBECK , P.C. 
901 New York Avenue, N.W., Suite 900 East Washington, DC 20001 
Telephone:  (202) 783-6040 
Facsimile: (202) 783-6031 
slieberman@rothwellfigg.com 
jmaisel@rothwellfigg.com klogan@rothwellfigg.com 
       
Attorneys for Plaintiff  
The New York Times Company 
 
 Case 1:23-cv-11195   Document 1   Filed 12/27/23   Page 69 of 69
