 Today we are going to be talking about New York Times is suing OpenAI. Kristen is a professor of intellectual property law in innovation at Cleveland State Law. She's a writer for Big Law IP trial and appellate litigator. So for all you all who just came out of Christmas and Quanza didn't read anything, didn't hear, New York Times decided to be kind of jerky and be like, hey, we're gonna sue OpenAI right in the middle of Christmas break. Come on, where's your Christmas spirit? I guess we begin the new year of the lawsuit. Maybe I'm old fashioned, that's what we do in M&A. So just give you, I actually, I got the 70 pages of the lawsuit and because I'm lazy, I tried to read a first 20, I was like, geez, so I gave it to GPT-4, I said, what do you think of this lawsuit? And GPT-4 said, the lawsuit filed by New York Times against Microsoft OpenAI centers on two primary allegations, copyright infringement. The New York Times claims that Microsoft OpenAI have used its copyright content without authorization to train AI tools like ChatGPT and BingChat. This action, according to New York Times, violates copyright and competes directly with its journalist services. Second, business damage. The New York Times asserts that the unauthorized use of content undermines its business relationships with revenue streams, including subscriptions and advertising. The New York Times seeks substantial damages, emphasizing the threat to its independent journalism and financial stability. The complaint also notes the financial gains of the defendants using New York Times content. So, Christa, I'd like you just kick it open to you in general, like when you heard of the lawsuit, or your thoughts, what kind of go from there. Yeah, thanks for having me on. So, when I first read this lawsuit, one of the things that I thought was interesting is the types of claims that they focus on. It's a little bit different than what some other companies have focused on when they've made allegations around web scraping. So, many other companies in the past have focused allegations of web scraping on things like breach of contracts, so breach of the terms of use, and something called a computer fraud and abuse act. But here, the New York Times decided to focus on copyright infringement claims. And it has these, I'd say, minor claims regarding unfair competition, but many of those are grounded in these copyright infringement claims, fundamentally. So, this is ultimately going to be mostly a copyright infringement lawsuit. And that's what makes it unique for many of the other web scraping lawsuits out there. Now, I think that the big defense that OpenAI is gonna raise here is fair use. And in many other contexts, and Microsoft as well, in many other contexts, when you have web scraping that's done for the purpose of preparing summaries or information for consumers, for things like search, those things haven't found to be fair use in the past, but oftentimes those were small snippets. And here, the huge allegation that New York Times makes is that this is way more than small snippets, where sometimes seeing entire articles being copied and reproduced in whole here. So, that's what makes this a little bit different than some of the other cases they're out there. And I think it'll be really fascinating to see what happens as this goes up in the courts. They mentioned in the complaint that they tried to engage in negotiations and that those have failed. So, I think this is one of those cases that's going to go all the way through trial and all the way through appeals as well. Chris, excellent summary of the whole situation. We love your input there. Joe, what are your thoughts when you saw this thing happen? I like your point about search lawsuits in the past and how those were treated. Did they go into any detail on how this is harmed the New York Times business? Yeah, so one of the situations that's unique here as well is that the New York Times is alleging that by reproducing entire copies of New York Times articles that it's fundamentally undermining the New York Times business model, which is a subscription-based model and all of their contents are behind a paywall except for a few trial documents. So, this is different than some of the other cases where we've seen where there's publicly accessible data that's being scraped in some of those other lawsuits, companies whose websites have been scraped have brought computer fraud and abuse act claims and courts have denied those claims saying that the data is publicly accessible. It's not a violation of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act which requires unauthorized access, whereas here this is a little different and they're going after these copyright claims because entire portions of documents are being reproduced. Right, so if you were the lawyer on the New York Times side, how would you make that point in court? Like how would you show that chat GPT is reproducing so much content that it's actively harming the New York Times business model? Right, so oftentimes damages can be very difficult to prove in these types of cases, but the unique thing about copyright cases is that there are two alternatives paths for pursuing damages. If you've registered your copyright in your work, which the New York Times alleges that it did for every single work that's ever produced, which is quite amazing, if you've registered your copyright, you have the right to elect statutory damages instead of trying to prove actual damages. So that's what makes a copyright claim unique from many of those other potential claims that could be brought. With these copyright claims, you can get statutory remedies. And the same is true of their allegation under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act for removal of copyright management information. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act has a couple provisions designed to address copyright infringement in the modern internet era. And one of those provisions is that you can't remove information like a copyright notice or other information that identifies the author from its work without facing statutory penalties. So here, all of the claims that they're bringing outside of their unfair competition claim don't actually require them to prove the actual harm to their business. They could, if they choose to, elect to pursue statutory remedies. Now, if they are able to identify a clear harm to their business, like they're able to identify that they lost subscribers, then they might decide to pursue those actual remedies instead. But I think statutory remedies might be a key trait here that they're going after. I think they're also trying to use the threat of an injunction and the threat of destruction of materials as a big leverage point for negotiations. Because if you are committing copyright infringement, there are situations where the court will order destruction of the infringing materials. And that would be the data set here. So if you could imagine that would be a huge, huge point of leverage for negotiations if they can say the court's going to order you to toss this data set. Right. A lot of questions. First, can you explain what injunction is to our listeners? Second, can you explain like what court this is going to and do we know anything about the judges? Like do they understand how AI works and how messy? The stuff's going and then three, do you think this case has a lot of legs? Like where do you see this thing going? Yeah, so to start with the question about what an injunction is. So an injunction is what's called an equitable remedy. There's two types of remedies available in court nowadays. And I'm very interested in equity and the history of equity as a professor. I will try not to bore you with a huge history lesson here. But for me, it's one of my favorite topics. So if you want to know more, you have a whole paper on this. But I love history. I love history. You know what? You're not getting just 20 minutes. You're getting 40 minutes now. So please get you to go. Well, a long time ago, we used to have separate courts actually of law and equity. The law courts would handle monetary damages and the equity courts would handle requests like monetary damages are not going to be enough. You have to stop them from doing what they're doing and prevent them from ever doing it again. And so here, the unit of times is seeking these statutory remedies and monetary remedies. But they're also seeking an injunction, which is an equitable remedy. Saying we are going to force this person to stop doing the things that we believe are harmful to our business. And that's something that the judge is allowed to decide and allowed to do. These monetary remedies are going to be decided by the jury. But equitable remedies like an injunction are decided by the judge. And in fact, those equitable remedies can be decided at pretty much any time in the case because you can't have preliminary injunctions. You can even have temporary restraining orders. Things that as the case progresses, we can force the other side to stop doing what they're doing or stop continuing the harm that we think is happening to them. Now, it'll be up to the judge's discretion to decide if they're going to do that and when they're going to do that. Wow. And do I like, when I think in Junction, I think of like the judge who might not know about how the AI stuff works, but it could be very sad. You could just say, could they eventually say, check UPT, OK, or open AI? Stop giving everyone access to any of your models. Stop letting anyone ask them questions until this case is settled. Could that be in their request? Yeah, so the judge will try to make a decision of an injunction with a balance of equities because this is, it's not a court of law, it's a court of equity, meaning we consider what's fair. We consider what's just, we balance the hardships of both parties to try to decide what's the most reasonable. They try not to impose harsh remedies when they're dealing with things like injunctions. So the best judges will carefully craft an injunction to prevent the harm that they believe is happening, while also not completely destroying the other person's business model unnecessarily, unless the entirety of that business model is based upon an infringement, which I don't think that New York Times can say in this case. Yeah, perfect explanation. And before the judge makes a decision, does he ask both councils, like, please make your argument for like why this injunction shouldn't happen or shouldn't? And what damage is causing your businesses? Yeah, so at different times in the case, they might have a motion for a preliminary injunction, for example, and in that motion, the parties will be able to present both the likelihood of success on the merits of the case, and also how the injunction should be crafted and whether it should be issued. So in that motion practice, they're going to have the opportunity to argue in paper and oftentimes in oral argument before the judge, what they think should happen and why they think there should be an injunction when it should be issued. Now, you also asked me about does this court know anything about AI? So the court that's handling this is in New York. It's a federal district court in New York. And I will say that this is a court that is extremely savvy in copyright law and technology issues that affect the arts. And it's not the courts in California that have a lot of high tech cases, but they often do face a lot of high tech copyright disputes. Many people choose to file copyright cases in New York in order to take advantage of some of the case law, especially in the second circuit court of appeals, which is the appellate court that handles decisions from the New York district court. And they're going to want to use that case law to try to show that there was copyright infringement here and that there shouldn't be fair use here. That's what they would argue. So this court is very savvy. Now, I do have a paper that I'm working on right now that looks at the scientific and technical educations of federal judges. We've conducted a nationwide study where we've collected information from about half of all federal judges right now. And so far, only 12 of them have a scientific or technical background. And half of those are on the federal circuit, which is the appeals court that handles patent disputes. So for the most part, technical experience judges are not available, but judges try their best to try to understand the technology in the cases that come before them so that they can make a fair and just decision. And they'll use the benefit of expert witnesses to help make that decision and to make sure that they're getting things right on the technology. And they'll also leave things up to the attorneys a lot to make sure that the attorneys are bringing the information about the technology to the judge and the decision maker that they need to know in order to make those decisions. Gosh, that was awesome. My mind's going in different directions or questions. I'm not going to hog from Joe. But one, I know sometimes I can just in Congress or Senate when they're thinking about passing a new bill, they open time for public hearings or any random like, and that crack had Jordan Timmado come. What do you think about this? Like, I don't know. Great point, Jordan. Is there a way where people who love chat, you can write a letter somewhere and be like, how this thing has been important for them? I just haven't. And the court, Jordan? Thank you pretty much. And how I'm not like, I, maybe, Christa, Joe, I don't go on there to be like, hey, can you tell me what's going on in your time's article? I never do it. You can actually do that. I was instead going to internet archives if I wanted to get something. But is there a way for people who like this product to actually make an argument that some where they can write or do a petition or something so that judges actually know how important this thing is? Yeah. So if consumer groups want to get together to put together what's called an amicus brief, they can do that. So at any stage in a proceeding, whether that's at the trial level or the appellate level or the Supreme Court level, there will be a time available to submit amicus briefs. And you can ask the court if it's not on the schedule to set a time for that. But typically you would do that through a group like a consumer rights organization or a technology organization that would have legal representation to help make sure that that amicus brief is in the proper format and submitted at the right timing. If you don't follow the right format and timing, that will get rejected and won't get read by the judge. So it's important to use a lawyer to submit that information. And you can do that oftentimes if you have a strong public interest basis for your argument, you can try to get some pro bono assistance and do that through a consumer protection group of some type. Awesome. And do you think OpenAI eventually will like go on, because they have a huge online following, they'll go on Twitter and be like, these are action groups that are trying to take in comments from our users so we can put into amicus brief. Please submit your thoughts on how this product has been helpful for you. I wonder what they're going to do to try to submit information from the public. The lawyers for OpenAI have the right to submit that themselves if they find a way to get that in as relevant to the case. Now the important aspect of that is it's relevant. So it might not be relevant to a copyright determination, whether this technology is used or of interest to consumers or how it's being used by consumers, unless it relates to whether there is or is not copyright infringement. If it's something like, I enjoy using this to find recipes or something like that, recipes are not copyright protectable, then that's not going to be useful to the court. And that's not going to be something that they're going to be able to submit into evidence. But I imagine there's going to be lots and lots of information submitted into evidence about how consumers use the product in relation to whether there is or is not copyright infringement. And specifically for these types of allegations. Now there's a unique allegation here, not only copyright infringement, but also vicarious and contributory liability for copyright infringement. And some of the standards for those types of copyright infringement, it's called an indirect theory of copyright infringement, basically saying you're responsible for your users infringing. That's going to require evidence that the users are, in fact, infringing. You need a direct infringement in order to have indirect infringement by the platform. So they're going to submit user behavior information in order to show that there is, in fact, a direct infringement by users. For example, the output or something like that is produced by users. That information is going to be necessary. So user information is going to come into play there. And it's also going to come into play when you're looking at whether the platform is capable of a substantial non-infringing use. That's one of the tests for vicarious copyright infringement. And in some previous Supreme Court case law, if, in fact, the platform is capable of a substantial non-infringing use, then it will not be liable for vicarious copyright infringement. They're maybe liable for other types of contributory infringement, which may follow different rules. There's a lot of different types of indirect infringement theories. Nice. Thank you for breaking all that down. And Joe, your pen was seriously going. You have some questions. Once you go for it. I got all kinds of questions about this one. I totally agree. That was a great description of the situation. You mentioned that they might be pressing some parts of this in order to negotiate other parts of it. Do you think there's a chance that this entire lawsuit is a result of previous business negotiations just breaking down? And then in frustration, they said, we're going to basically sue you. And that if the business deal would go forward from here, that this lawsuit would disappear? Like, how do those two things interact? Oh, absolutely. If the business transaction goes through, if there's a successful negotiation, and they reach an agreement on the amount of money for licensing of these New York Times articles, I think that's going to obviously get rid of the case. The parties in that situation would file what's called a voluntary dismissal. And they would get rid of the lawsuit, and it wouldn't go forward. And we would need to wait another day for a different set of parties to look at these issues of whether there is transformative fair use in these contexts, whether there is bicarious liability in the context of training data sets on this type of proprietary content. So yes, a negotiation that's successful would get this lawsuit tossed out. Interesting. And when I think about how a product like this is built, I think about the training set, which I think OpenAI has indicated they took from existing machine learning training sets that other people use. So I'm assuming if New York Times content was in those training sets that many other machine learning models have also been trained on New York Times. So it seems like if this lawsuit is decided that everyone who use those same training sets would be impacted in roughly the same way. Do I understand that right? Kind of. I think it would depend on exactly the theory of liability that's found to be problematic here. So specifically, one example where I think there's a possibility, for this case to go forward, is in the situation of copyright infringement on the basis of outputs that are identical to existing New York Times articles. For example, you type a single portion of the article into chat GBT and the entire full set of a real New York Times article comes back to you. That one is a situation where it's more likely to be considered a copyright infringement, and the fair use is a lot harder to prove. Now, a lot of that can be trained out of models or taken out of models by adding guardrails, by saying that we're not going to allow somebody to put in a paragraph and ask to complete it, or they're going to put other sorts of technological access measures to make sure that people don't receive outputs that are identical to piece pieces of the training data. Now, this can be difficult if there's duplicative data in the data set. That makes it more likely to get exact content that's output from these large language models. For example, if you have three copies of the same New York Times York Times article in the data set. That makes it much more likely that you're going to get an exact copy of the New York Times article when you get it out there. So folks can try to help this by deduplicating the data set and that can make it less likely to result in these direct copyright infringements or you can put straight up guardrails that say we know that this particular content is copyright protected and we're going to make sure that any output that matches this set of inputs we're going to say sorry we can't produce that output. Now this is something that happened with the image recognition systems with things like the Afghan girl because there were many, many copies of Afghan girl that were present that you know that that picture that's a photograph of a woman she has a head scarf on and she's a young girl. Those green eyes are not yeah. Right and so the eyes aren't as beautiful as Joe's though. Joe's eyes are just. Her image that image by a photographer that's copyrighted is replicated frequently in those image generation data sets and so most companies have now put guardrails in place that when you ask for Afghan girl you can no longer get an exact replica of the Afghan girl photograph and I think this is true for folks that want to avoid this kind of direct copyright infringement in output that the New York Times is alleging is occurring here. So I do think that companies can take actions to make sure that that type of infringement doesn't happen but we still have concerns over the training data set. Now if a court finds that the training is a copyright infringement that's going to be a whole other situation where then anybody that uses that data set needs to be afraid of using that data that is a situation where courts might be more likely to find fair use than in situations where you have those exact replica outputs. Got it so it's much more about reproducing the article in your output than that you might have used the articles for input during training but you probably could do yourself a favor by just deduplicating it from the start. That's probably true and we'll have to wait and see what happens with this case and many others that have alleged the training is copyright infringement. We're waiting to see whether courts are going to say that there is in fact a copy that's made during training or not. There's a lot of debate over that and we're going to have to wait and see if courts say that even if there is a copy made during training is that going to be a fair use. It's an entirely separate question from this question of if the model is generating outputs that match the New York Times articles or another copyrighted content. So when I used to do YouTube interviews or Google like sometimes you get certain guess where it's just like all right I asked all my questions this person like give me anything. Do you like stuff? Like it's like it's like you're on a bad date and with you Chris says like oh my god like everything says like 50,000 more questions like compose yourself to know she's really good at interviewing so thank you. I would say we have a a soundtrack called sweep the leg no mercy from movie I'm not going to mention because you're a copyright lawyer and so that's why I'd be pressing right now by media boardwork. What I want to say too is I don't even mention the difference between looking at the training data and then looking at like just reproducing New York Times articles. But I know there's some people in the open source community who've been like taking a victory lap say ah ah I guess that's an impact in open source but if it becomes a training data issue everyone from closed source to open source models could be impacted by this lawsuit. So is this like a kumbaya moment or the the Voldemort from closed source the heroes from I didn't watch a Harry Potter movies I know the Hobbits or something people are cringing have to come together and kumbaya to fight the great evil which is New York Times or am I reading too much into this situation? It's it's a very good question because when you're talking about the situation of training data that's where I'll limit this question that's where the question of fair use is going to come into play and that question of fair use is extremely fact specific and it's going to vary depending on exactly how it's used it varies depending on whether there's a commercial or non commercial use if it's helpful I can go over some of the four factors of the fair use test and that'll help you see why this might be different for the different types of it. Please actually because the the way the show is set up was like we wanted to get the world smartest man which is Joseph Trinasky and then get the world's stupidest man which is Jordan Tibido so that I can ask stupid questions like what's the computer and then Joe could like break it down so everyone could follow so anytime you think something's like oh everyone understands this concept it's me here so assume I don't get it so please break down the the four. Sure so fair use is a test that is embodied in a statutory set of fair use factors and then it's also been described and enhanced by a set of court decisions across the country and those court decisions are not always consistent from one jurisdiction to the next the second circuit that hears appeals from New York cases has some decisions that are different from the ninth circuit that handles appeals from California cases but the statutory fair use factors are the same now that is one the purpose and character of the use that means for the person that's accused of infringement how are they using the work are they using the work in a way that's transformative for example are they changing how the work is used are they using it for an entirely different purpose or an entirely different way than the original creator of the work was using it so for example in the cases around search engines people have said that it was a transformative use if you're taking some original content and including a small snippet for the purpose of a search result for so that somebody can click on it and get access to that information they're not using it in quite the same way or for the same purpose as the original so that could be a transformative purpose now the second factor is the nature of the copyrighted work this factor doesn't tend to move the needle too far for most cases the question here is how core of an expression is this is this something where it's a photograph or a piece of art or a literary work where we're going to give a lot of protection or is this something like a process that's used for accounting where we're going to give a little bit less protection how strong is the copyright how much of this is an expression instead of just an idea the next one the next factor the third factor is the amount and the substantiality of the use that means are you taking a tiny little snippet only as much as you need to make this transformative use or are you taking the whole thing and one of the things that the New York Times is alleging here is that this is way way more than just a little snippet this is way different from some of those other cases the New York Times alleges they say by taking large portions of the work for search results or something like that or being chat that this is very different from some of those previous search result cases and they're foreshadowing hey we don't think you're going to win your fair use argument here on factor number three because there's a large amount of use here and then the last factor is going to be the effect on the marketplace so how much does this mean that consumers are not going to go to the New York Times and pay for the New York Times to access New York Times content there are some situations where use of a work can enhance the marketability of that work and in those situations factor four would weigh against the person that's trying to assert infringement whereas there are some situations where use of the work undermines the market in the original and that situation you're going to be less likely to find fair use so those are the forth factors courts do a lot of different things with it and they come out different ways but I think in situations like an open source use that's going to come into that first factor of the purpose and character of the use they look at whether it's commercial or non-commercial use as part of that fair use factor but that's not dispositive you can have a non-commercial use that still ends up being non fair use because of the amount of the use or because of the effect on the market and that's going to be a case by case decision so this case this case won't rule on all of the potential uses of New York Times particles it's only going to be for this type of use okay interesting Joe give some questions I have I think you should go far okay great so first of all thank you again Krista we should have a ding every time we say Chris to thank you you're amazing ding and uh working again exactly um and Chris so we want you here longer if you have more time actually yeah okay also a quick plug for Krista's website Krista chr i st a laser l a s er dot com because she's site's under construction she also has a book on goals and the philosophy and science of achieving your dreams we'll probably want to hear about that later on but yes check our website um what I was going to go into is now it seems like New York Times is playing some games here because they let like if I search for an article that's behind the paywall like let's say it's right not actually let's say I don't even search for an article I search for a concept that might be in an article that I don't know they I believe they allow the Google crawler to see the full article so then it will then just serve me the paywalled article I can't see the rest so couldn't open it I'd be like well wait a minute you're allowing the Google boys to like get access you're giving it out but then for us we're we might when we train this model we got the same indexing right so we didn't know because you let this thing open on the web crawler side of the house so isn't this kind of your fault for not coding a better solution um they love to hear what you think Krista look I just slept a holiday and express I have a second grad education so full free back no Jordan you're an idiot and Joe jump into no I I'd actually be very curious who Joe's thoughts of this because I know you have more experience with these web crawlers and the exact instructions that's given to web crawlers so I'd be very curious if your thoughts in particular I think from a legal perspective it's going to be much more interesting to know you know is there a copyright infringement is there a violation of the computer fraud and abuse act meaning is there any access that's unauthorized and if there's authorized access it's probably not a violation of the computer fraud and abuse act that might be why they didn't bring the claims for computer fraud and abuse act here but I'd be curious to hear from from Joe on the details of the web crawler here yeah the the web crawler exclusion is pretty simple to implement and it's designed so you could easily implement it across your entire website with just one piece of information or you could do something more sophisticated and say you know the web crawler can't see this subset but it can see this subset or you could even go article by article in this case I believe to Jordan's point that most content sites have allowed their sites to be crawled but maybe what you said before Christopher about the size of the search result snippets is the key point here like yes we're allowing everything to be crawled by Google yes we want Google to find our articles and provide pointers back to our website for those articles that's great we appreciate you sending us lots of traffic it's good for our ad revenue we can put the paywall up separately and decide whether we want to exclude or not and to what degree but we'd appreciate it if the snippet is really short and frustrating and only enough information for a user to decide they want to click through whereas clearly that's not what chat GPT is doing but if New York Times or anybody else wanted to exclude themselves from a crawler that's really easy to do and I could I could I wouldn't be surprised if the court said the the decision about whether you should be included in a training set is made by how you set up your crawler exclusion on your website. Now I'll be go ahead go no no you're you're the presser here you go first I'm just a student I was going to say I'm very curious are there ways to set up the web crawler that you can put some sort of legal restriction on the use like are they allowed to add a terms and conditions somewhere in there you know oftentimes these folks have a terms and conditions on their website that it will govern how people are allowed to use the information and that'll be in legal ease but it's hard to enforce that via computer code right code is not always law and I wonder is there any technological mechanism where someone can say look I want this to be used for search results because that benefits me but I don't want this to be used for any copying of information that's going to go beyond search results or anything for any kind of training data or something like that. Right yeah I take your point I don't think that the current mechanism allows you to say what purpose you intend the information to be used for it only says which resources in the sense of a website resource is accessible or not accessible you can exclude based on the crawler so you could say I'll allow Google to index my site or this subset of my site but not open AI to index my site or alternatively you could say you know in the future if someone says this is the name of the crawler that builds our data sets for training you could exclude that crawler. I think if I had to guess though that the New York Times is going to this goes back to your earlier point about the parts that's included in the data set and the parts produced or reproduced by the product I think they're going to want to be in all data sets and they're going to ask for references back to their source data whenever it's used for something even if it's not reproduced but they're going to ask for extreme limits on how much is reproduced that's my guess what do you do you think that's how this is going to end up or do you think that fits their motivation? I think it's difficult you know this is not a computer front and a V-sack case so I don't think the crawler is going to be quite as important as in some of those types of cases this will be more about what do the outputs look like what are the actual training inputs look like but I'm curious if there is a way to develop some sort of technological mechanism that would take advantage of the fact that all of these companies have terms of use that say how things are supposed to be used and that the companies I think should be able to have some sort of technological means to inform people hey this is subject to our terms of use don't go beyond that you can use it for search engines you can't use it for this or that purpose that we don't agree with and right now it sounds like there's no technological means to do that now obviously we still have terms of use on the website and as you noted I think in it was a blog post that the crawlers do say look you have to abide by the terms of use of those websites that you're crawling but I'm very curious to see how how that actually gets implemented technological mechanism. Yeah so my devious mind running here and I'm thinking that if I was New York Times here I'm trying to cut a fat hog and see how much I can shake those pockets from open AI to get the best deal for New York Times and I'm not making it cynical I mean let's be real they have a lot of journalists there they need to take cover they care about their mission they want to make sure that they can continue to cover important stories we support journalists we are real journalism best skater journalism and I noticed in the story broke when New York Times mentioned I guess they had we had ongoing conversation is going on with open AI regarding how this would work out and we came to some type I'm paraphrasing some type of loggerheads and now we're going to legal route and so what I'm thinking is they are probably asking for an amount of money or opening I was just like sorry go jump into the lake we can't we can't do that because I have a story here from the verge open AI's news publisher deals reportedly top out at five million a year and so opening eyes talking other publishers they go between one to five million a year for licensed copyright material and I think the time is like well yeah that's for axle and the rest of them but we're the New York Times like make it rain because I believe Apple it said Apple is looking to partner with media companies to use content for AI training as offering at least 50 million over a multi-year period for data so if I'm New York Times I want that Apple buddy so I'm pushing open AI like raise that up because I believe the web crawler technology Joe like this didn't just come out of nowhere Google had to kind of like you know create this new regime and create this crawler technology because this is the frontier of like the whole idea of like indexing content okay I'm not injured here that's why you're here for but what I'm saying is I bet there is someone smart enough New York Times that was seeing because they I think open AI went to New York Times a couple years ago about their first models and showing them what they could do I'm sure some of their engineers had a conversation saying oh yeah like is there a way that you could flag some of your articles or we could flag your so we don't put it into the training corpus and create an issue but then New York Times is also thinking like hell no we don't want that because then we disappear we want people to be going to the times for articles we want to be in there but they so they kind of like want to have their cake you need it to so Joe I'd like your take on what I was saying and Chris to love to hear your thoughts are too I think going back to the crawler restrictions or exclusions they're really simplistic I think Christa was right on was saying it'd be it'd be much more interesting if those crawler restrictions specified purpose and would let you say you know this collection of information is protected in these ways and you can use it but only in these ways that's a nice idea for an extension I do think it's feasible to do that if you look at the privacy laws like GDPR there are several companies that have implemented similar schemes for purpose use and this is similar at least to my engineering thinking I totally agree with you Jordan that if I was at the New York Times I would desperately want to be included in all training sets and in all products like this and I would want my brand name to show up and I would want links to my articles to show up like crazy and I would want them to drive me as much traffic as they possibly could just so I could turn them away at the paywall and thumb I knows at them but I think Chris that nailed this early on with her point that the snippet is the key way that Google kind of evaded this whole problem they kept shortening the snippets and making them less and less useful well at least to me as a search user but probably more and more allowable I guess to the people who own the content yeah I think I'd be curious to see there are a lot of companies that they want to be in the data set but they want to be compensated for that but there's also a lot of people that don't want to be in the data set at all and this is a complaint of many artists and authors and some of the other lawsuits against opening eye that they never wanted to be in there at all but under all of these theories you still fundamentally have a copyright concern of is there a reproduction without consent. And that's the fundamental question that it comes down to you in these lawsuits. So regardless of whether they used it for this or that, is there a reproduction that they didn't get affirmative consent for? And simply failing to include an exclusion in a crawler, you know, robot file or anything like that, that isn't enough to give a copyright license under the law. So you're going to have to find other ways to get that legal permission from people. And I think that's a good thing fundamentally, because I think that creators should have the right to determine how their content is being used by other technologies, unless that use is in fact a fair use as determined by a court. But that's why we have the fair use factors, we have things to look at. Okay, it's only a little bit being used. Is this fundamentally different? It doesn't affect the market. It's non-commercial, things like that. So, Krista, let's go into the speculation mode, because this is a new year, and I mean, you know, I could speculate and gamble and always be wrong on things. And so we're not going to hold you accountable to any of this. It's not a court of law. This is just a sick podcast. Don't forget to like and subscribe. Let's first focus on the equity courts. What would you think if the judge is going to rule? Is he going to come out and say there should be an injunction? And if they said there was, or he or she thinks there's going to be an injunction, what do you think would be fair and equitable to both sides? Would it be like, we're going to add more bloat to the prompt so that Jordan types and show me new time article. It responds, sorry Dave, I can't respond with a new time article. Or we're going to see something super hardcore, we're just like, you can't ask it, do anything. The only thing you can do is create Pikachu memes. Sorry, that's copyright. So generic knockoff Pikachu memes. Go ahead. Oh, this is a really tough question. I think I'm going to take it a little bit at a time because I think it will depend on what the court finds in terms of the type of infringement here. Now, if the court finds the easiest one here is if the court finds that the output that's being generated is a copyright infringing output. You know, there's New York Times articles. They're being directly reproduced in their entirety. And let's throw in the DMCA claim as well and say they're being reproduced in their entirety without the credit to the author or to the New York Times. So in those situations, I think a court could craft a pretty narrow injunction that would still prevent all that potential copyright infringement by saying anytime that you have something in the data set, you're not allowed to have that content reproduced if it's belonging to this parties in this case. So any New York Times content that is not allowed to be in the outputs. I think that judges are not going to go so far as to say you have to completely stop using all of these data sets. But there is a possibility that some courts could go that route and say that it's fruit of the poisonous tree and that all of the data set is tainted by this and you can't unravel it. And if that's the case and they do find that the training was in fact copyright infringement, then a court might be in the right to say that we're going to issue an injunction that you can't use this data set at all and at all until you can unravel that copyrighted content from it. But I think that is a much closer case and it's also a much larger, more invasive remedy. So courts are going to be much more cautious about that. It's quite possible that a court would say that's an injunction that we're not going to make until after we finish all the appeals here. We're going to stay the injunction. It's called a stay. We're going to wait for all these appeals to go through and make sure we're actually right in that the Supreme Court agrees with us before we go issue in order that they have to toss all the data set. That's a much broader remedy there. So courts do so. So, hopefully. Thank you. I appreciate you breaking that down and it also shows me how much I don't know anything about law. I mean, I watched law in order. I thought I was a lawyer now, but I guess not. Okay, so let's say they go to court equity and open a eyes like or start the judge like you're all good famed. Continue with chat GPT. We'll see you all in court. So court for them to go to trials, going to take what it you think a year or two to get the trial or something. It can take a long time. It depends on the court. There are some courts that are known as rocket dockets like the Easter Divergenia. But that's the actual term that lawyers used to describe them. And those are cases where on average, they're hearing these complex litigations within 18 months to two years. That's typically considered a rocket docket. But the Southern District of New York is not often considered a rocket docket. They have so much going on. They have huge criminal cases happening. And oftentimes, these types of cases are going to be slotted for trial dates in between, you know, some mass murder, some mafia gang, you know, huge important timely issues. And you look at this and say, well, this seems like a huge important timely issue. Well, maybe not so much as life and death, right? So in some of the whole I'm just kidding. No, go ahead. So in some of these courts, you might see a trial date. Maybe even on the timeline of three years, sometimes even five years, it can take a long time depending on how many interlocatory appeals you have, meaning appeals that happen in the middle of the case. If you have a summary judgment decision, which is a decision based on the law, when the parties agree on the facts that are at issue or they can't prove that the facts are any different than what the one party who's bringing the summary judgment motion alleges. And they'll try to have a decision on the law and then that's going to get appealed. It's going to go back down. Then they're going to go forward with trial. They might have a trial and then it goes up on appeal. And then it has to come back down for a retrial on damages or something like that. So this process of actually reaching the final judgment can sometimes take three to five years. And then once that final judgment is issued, you still have those further appeals. Going all the way up to the Supreme Court, you could be looking at something like 10 to 12 years to have a final decision at the Supreme Court in a case like this. So oftentimes the parties will have resolved these issues well before the timeline that we're talking about for reaching the Supreme Court. And the cases where where things actually go to the Supreme Court, oh, usually the parties are in a really sad state by then. Somebody suffering quite a lot of harm during the pendency of the case. I'm a firm believer that Justice delayed is Justice denied. And that's why these these injunctions that happen during the course of the case are so important for the parties and for making sure that there is in fact fairness going forward. But that's that kind of huge repercussions. I mean, it can it can undermine entire businesses while we wait for the appeal to go all the way through to the court. The courts are not places to get swift juxtust at all. I agree. Well said. Yeah, I have a family friend right now. Another company copied their IP producing the same product in China. And they're producing it. And now he asked to wait two, three years to just get in court so we can actually fight. If you want to go through WTO, it will cost from $15 million and you just small business. So it's like, oh yeah. But you answered my next question of like, okay, let's say open an eye, wins or loses, then it goes up the Supreme Court or whatnot. But Joe, so she's mentioning it might take three to five years to this thing to give the the document go. My ding synthetic data brands going saying, if I'm opening an eye and I'm training G proof to be five or six and we know since the data already works, this is even more of a forcing function to be like, let's train these mall synthetics. We can sidestep all this stuff going forward. Wouldn't you think near time just like, oh, wait a minute, we know synthetic data is a possibility. If we try to fight this too hard in court, they might just say, go jump in a lake, we'll litigate you out, but going forward, we're never going to include any New York time stuff in any of our models. We'll have to hear just what your thoughts are, Joe, and synthetic data and what's going on here in this situation. Yeah, I'm sure they have alternatives already to generate synthetic data that would do that would serve the same purpose for training. I mean, worst case, you could take the New York Times articles as they are and just mask every third token at random and just use it for training. If you're just trying to get the shape of the language as part of the capability of the model, that's pretty easy. You could swap words for synonyms and still get the same training result probably. Or the way Chris to describe before, you could just exclude any output from the New York Times artificially after the fact. And then you'd still have all the benefit of the language, you know, richness and diversity, but you wouldn't get any output that offended anyone. I also think a lot of what happened with other countries trying to work around search engines and trying to give some benefit to their local media, those were really instructive because often they would they would pass some law like if you provide a link to a news article, you have to pay royalties to the company that wrote the article. And then the search engines or Facebook or whichever company was involved, they would basically exclude those companies from their index. And then the companies would realize a huge drop in traffic, you know, the generated traffic, which is a disaster for them. They desperately want that that traffic. So I don't think that that New York Times is going to press for that. I think you made a good point earlier about them wanting the revenue. My question for them would be how much of the total training set was the New York Times archive? My guess is it's incredibly small. It's certainly less than 1%, it might even be less than 100th of a percent. And if that's the case, what's to stop anybody who's training this similar kind of model to just exclude it in the future? And we could even go the direction that Chris described where you say we're going to exclude everybody who's still under copyright unless they explicitly ask to be included. That would be savage. Oh man, I just want to jump in with one quick thing here though. There was a hilarious, I wish I could remember where it was that there was a hilarious comic strip that I saw that suggested this possibility of removing all of the copyrighted content, which in the United States goes back to 1923. So if we're looking at we're going to train these things on only pre-1923 text, how would that look? What kind of language model are we going to be getting? And how does that look different from the kind of language and communication that we have now? We're not going to have communication on a lot of interesting topics that people are often researching, things that might be taboo to the people in the 1910s that people are often asking questions about. We're going to see the language look very different and look very foreign to modern users. So this is something where I think if we're only training on copyright-free data, we're going to be really limited in those datasets. So fundamentally a lot of these case decisions. If they're looking at the question of whether training is copyright infringement, they're fundamentally a decision on whether we can have AI models that are trained on modern communication. The most modern communication is going to be copyright protected. Yeah, I think that's what Jordan was asking about was synthetic data, but also keep in mind that there are entire countries that have already decided that all of their content is available. So for example, if I'm incorporating that content in other languages, I can bring it into the model. And there are a lot of papers discussing cross-language fertilization, I guess, pollination. But often if you train in one language, you learn a lot about the content ideas and grammar of other languages. So my guess is if we go this direction, we're going to see a sorting process where certain cultures decide they don't want to be part of this. And other cultures just embrace it openly. I think Japan's already made their decision. Yeah, they went online. They said we don't copyright doesn't hold for AI. Yeah, they really went all in. The other point is, and I'm curious to get your thought on this crystal. Depending on how this goes, we're only talking so far about text. But right behind this, and probably there already been cases on images, but right behind this is video and other forms of time-based media that are very rich and equally source of copyright problems. If they make a decision in this case, will it decide for those other media types or do they have to do those separately? I love that question. So the answer is it depends. And I think if you're looking at text, it's much easier to have an output that infringes copyright because there are way fewer variations that are possible than when you're looking at something like an image or especially a video output. When it comes to a video output, we often don't see copyright being a concern as much as issues of right of publicity and trademark infringement. Because in those situations, oftentimes the output is not going to look exactly like an input. You're going to have outputs that have some variability. And oftentimes in videos, you will have recognizable characters or people. And then you're going to have to worry about those right of publicity violations. That's going to be the big question for video. I mean, we still have a lot of copyright concerns when it comes to images, but those are primarily in the training because except for very unique cases where you have hundreds or thousands of copies of the image like the Afghan girl in the training set, it's much harder to get an output that looks identical to one of the inputs. And that's not the case for text. With text, we do see those outputs often looking identical to the inputs, even if you only have three copies of it in the database. Now, we'll have to see when we get to discovery, okay, how many copies are actually in the database, how much can you do, can you help and all of that. But I think for text, fundamentally, the technology and the likelihood of copying is going to be so different. And that's going to affect things from a legal perspective as well. Interesting. For the record, I bet that these articles are duplicated many times in the training set. Those training sets are a mess. Yeah, one thing, regarding all two things, you mentioned Joe, the sorting hat, sort of like, you'll see some countries who are like, hey, Losefair, we need this technology to improve society. Yes, it's unfortunate, certain copyrights that can work out, but we really need to like get this in our society to make some much more efficient, productive. And the right society is you're like, no, we're going to do like what Japan did in like the 14, 15 centuries go to all feudalism, like no European ships, nothing. We're in a critter on data island. And that would be so incredibly unfortunate if the data apocalypse, Christa talked about, or we say basically nothing before 1920s in this model. And I go to ask a model a question and it comes back to me with like a 1920s dialect and charm or something. And I ask about a movie or a call you're talking about the talkies, the talkies, I was like, what the hell is this crap? I'm going to Japan, I'll talk to you later. So that would be unfortunate if we own go gold or sell for that. Second thing, so like, I'm actually forgetting my question, dammit. This is when a mine goes goes to waste, it's very terrible. Oh, second thing, New York Times, like, let's be real like that. Then the news they provide though, it has a very short shelf life. It's not like they're providing creative research like Christa is creating where it's like, this is something that 20 years from now I can look into. So it feels like the value that New York Times really wants is just not to be forgotten and to be at that point when people are typing in keystrokes, check GPT to get a link or a source back in New York Times. So it gets people to go over there and want to maybe possibly get a subscription. So I feel that the New York Times plays their hand too hard. They're just going to drive another stake into themselves because I mean, we're seeing how tech is going right now and in dominating certain news industries. If they get to the point where we're opening eye and you know, the model is saying we're going to exclude you completely then, that's going to be really bad for their business overall. Christa, I saw you had a you're thinking you had a question. Go ahead. I'm not sure I agree with that. You know, as a professor, I often assign my students to read articles from 10 or 15 years ago because they have relevance to some of the discussions that we have now. I have a course coming up called Innovation Law, which is about innovation policy. And one of the classes I have them look at several 15 to 20-year-old articles on some companies that are saying, oh, we're trying this new approach of monetizing our intellectual property. Let's see how this goes. And then now with the hindsight of 15 to 20 years later, we can see wow, that goes really well for them. It is a good idea to monetize intellectual property. So there's many purposes that I think those old articles serve. And I imagine that those subscriptions are not valuable just for today's news. They're going to be valuable for a historical record granted. I think more people read today's news than the ones reading those historical records, but I think those historical records have a lot of value as well. Touche, fair, you're right. There's different different spectrums because like there's what the New Yorker will write or when New York Times has investigated journalism that that stuff is timeless. And then there's stuff that Kevin Russo writes where it's like, oh, I got access to proto-ADI and I asked him about can you convince it to help me break up with my girlfriend? And I'm like, I news fit to print. This shouldn't even made it out. New paper raised me bad. So you're right, Christa Touche. I like that point. Christa, we've kept you, I was like, Christa, I get 20 minutes of your time. But here I am. I'm calling you up an hour. I'm actually good for another 10 minutes or so. My, my, my holiday party is tonight, but I've got about 20 more minutes until then. I hope, okay. I know you got me a great gift and great birthday party. Christa, what, what didn't we cover that you're like, oh, I wish we could talk about that or, oh, I wish I could talk to someone who's a VP of engineering who might have an angle on this regarding this case. Well, I will say, Joe, I really enjoyed our conversation about seeing if we can find some technological measures to get some of those legal concerns in there. I wish we could find a way to, to technologically say go look at the terms of service or find ways to, to code the terms of service into those crawlers. I hope that would be a huge innovation. Somebody's got to do it. If you end up doing it, let me know and I'm happy to work with you to help, help on that or if somebody does that. I think it's a great idea. The other point that I think is really fascinating here is on the Ficarious liability and the indirect infringement. Now, I will say that there's, it's a big stretch. I will say some of their, some of their Bicarious liability claims are a big stretch. In light of cases that we've seen in the past, specifically, there were some interesting case law from the Supreme Court in a case called Sony Corporation versus Universal City Studios where they were looking at questions of and things like that, or various copies that you could make of information, like movies, and all of that. And one of the things that the court said, and I'm going to make a quote here, it said, if I carry a sliability is to be imposed on petitioners in this case, it must rest on the fact that they have sold equipment with constructive knowledge of the fact that their customers may use that equipment to make unauthorized copies of copyrighted materials. There's no precedent in the law of copyright for the imposition of I carry a sliability on such a theory. And I think that Sony case is going to be problematic for some of these vicarious liability theories because essentially they're making an argument that the companies like AI and Microsoft and other AI companies are going out there and creating something where they have constructive knowledge that people are engaging in potential infringement, and that's not going to be enough under the law. There's going to need to be something more. Something like, for example, MGM versus Groxter was another case where they did find that indirect infringement liability when the person who was the owner of the copyright informed them, hey, 90% of your content is copyright infringing content, please take it down. And they said, no, we're not going to do that. And so that situation where you're going to result in indirect liability, that's very different than what we're seeing here. So although I think New York Times was trying to set that up by saying, look, we've told you we don't want you to use our content. So we'll see what happens going forward. That might be a potential concern. Now that it's very clear that New York Times does not want them to use this information. But I think we're going to have a much bigger stretch on some of those indirect theories as we will on the direct infringement theory for the outputs. That's going to be New York Times strongest case here. And then we're going to have some interesting questions arise on training data and whether training is copyright infringement. That's going to be much more on the fence. I think we're going to have some interesting questions of fair use. It's quite possible the court doesn't even reach that because the court might say there's no copying in the training data here. There's no copy being produced because copying is fundamentally necessary for copyright infringement. So those are the last points I'll leave you guys with. So this is that's great. I was also thinking it's not kind of related, but remember when tea back in the day, there's a thing called Tivo. And so they're the first I remember when I first used Tivo back in the 90s and I covered rewind live TV. I was like, oh my god. And then Comcast was like, wow, this is great technology. You got here. You're young. And then Tivo was like, hey, what's going on in the copcast? Like, well, we've a big legal table. See you in court for next 20 years. And eventually it killed Tivo's business. So that's why we were talking about equitable solutions. Like that's why that was a great point you made. That was very unfair for Tivo because they probably still would be around kicking mud if Comcast did a new to them like that. So first, let's do a different knob of trying to make sure that their decisions on injunctions and equity are actually going to be doing what's right. That's a very, very hard decision that courts need to make often very early in the case when they haven't really learned everything about it. So I don't envy the judges not to position. And they often make decisions that are not perfect in hindsight, but that's inevitable. So tough. It's like because we get for on the business side, especially tech week, our whole thing is just like move fast. You launch something. You know it's not going to be correct. And then you iterate quickly and you get to perfection where law it's like, I get one by the apple in perfect information and no one's going to be happy. Your goes. So, you know, that's really interesting. Another question. I believe like was there a decision made that said basically AI starts generating its own, you know, it starts creating its own information, its own IP. It's not copyrightable. Is that correct or no? Copyright office. This is a complicated answer to you. The copyright office has made a decision in regulatory decisions. What's they have a some decision making of whether they're deciding to grant a copyright registration. And the copyright office has taken a position that they are not going to issue copyright registrations for works that are produced with AI as long as it's generative AI. And that's the source of the creativity. And we do have a court decision that affirmed one of those cases where somebody said that the AI was entirely responsible for creation of the work. And there was no human creativity in that creation. And in that situation, the court said, yeah, we agree. We are not going to find that decision by the copyright office. What's called arbitrary and capricious. So this was not a court decision saying that AI generated works are not copyrightable. We will have to wait and see what courts end up saying. The copyright office has a policy against that, but that doesn't mean that courts have to go the same route. And that's why courts are allowed to make a decision that's different from the copyright office. And we'll have to see what happens as these cases get further along in court. My personal opinion and I've written a blog post about this is that we're going to look at some of those old photograph cases where the Supreme Court was trying to decide, hey, there's this machine that's making things. Is that not copyrightable because it's something generated by a machine. Look at the fancy thing making a photograph. It looks identical to the thing in front of it. And the Supreme Court said, no, this is a tool used for human creativity. And I think that's the way that the courts are going to come out here when it finally reaches that decision. I submitted comments to the copyright office and that that are available on my, I have a page called SSRN. It's a page where I keep all of my research available to everybody for free. If you're interested, go to SSRN and search for my name. And you can find my comments to the copyright office on this point where I say, look at those old photograph cases and don't find that AI generated works are not copyrightable. And you think about that. I was like, oh, yeah, like you take a picture. And from like San Francisco, you copyright it like that's yours or something. But like I guess back then they're like, no, that's not how it works. That's super interesting. Things I take we take for granted. Do you think eventually there will need to be like a law passed or something in like a center of Congress basically say like, hey, or you think it's going to happen just in the courts, like eventually people someone's like a case saying, hey, you know, I put millions of dollars to build this AI that's creating all this great work. And now you're saying all the work it creates. I don't know and people copy. Do you think it's going to happen? I think this is something that's going to ultimately be handled by the courts and not by Congress. Congress has been taking a part look at it and trying to figure out should they pass laws on these topics. But I think fundamentally Congress is finding that we have copyright laws. They are clear. We can apply them to new technologies and new innovations. And I'll make one final plug for one of my other articles, which is I recently wrote about this. It's also available for free on my SSR and page about blockchain law. And a lot of people were arguing that when blockchain came out, we need all these new laws for blockchain. And I argued no, we can apply all the old laws to new technologies for the most part, except in the rare circumstances where there's some new unforeseen type of harm or new unforeseen type of property that we need to assign the rights to. And I don't think that's the case here with AI. I don't think it was the case with blockchain. I think existing laws are enough and Congress will see that when they look into it enough. I think that's why they haven't passed laws on these topics. I think a lot of other countries are passing laws on these topics, not for the purpose of clarifying the law, but for the purpose of generating investment and causing companies to move there because they can get clarity. And they can have assurance that if you're an AI company, we're going to give you favor over those creators. And that's not something that the United States generally has the same viewpoint on as many other countries. Oh, so are the judges are like, why are these politicians passing all this stuff? And they're like, no, they're just doing for marketing so they can get someone to build their next startup over here. Wow. Okay, you're now, you're the official sick AI lawyer. We can't we can't pay you anything. I'm in a meth lab. Well, I have a dog photo. He's ready for office. If you want to support one of the things that I wish I would have said in the United States, I think that we're going to see more and more use of proprietary models taking the lead. We've seen, for example, that in the context of image generation, Adobe was very persuasive to members of Congress when it argued that all the rampant copyright infringement that they were alleging would occur would not happen on their closed proprietary models that were based on licensed information. And so I think that we'll see more and more proprietary licensed models like Adobe, perhaps apples models and other models that are based on all licensed content proliferating in the system and not suffering from all of these legal concerns. If we get a court decision that ends up saying that training is not fair use and that training is in fact a copyright infringement, then all of those proprietary models are going to be ready to step in and say come use us. We've got the content still. Guys are really great point because I remember Microsoft is recently came out and was like, hey, any large company, if using your models, you get sued, we're going to cover your legal tab. And I was like, oh, that's really interesting point from the bring up and the what you just mentioned of just training a copyrighted material to completely sidestep that. But then my question is like, what's the performance of something purely trained on things that are approved and are copyrighted to be reproduced versus something that just goes out there and just looks at all the. Yeah, it doesn't have as much data, right? Because it's way harder to get enough information when you're paying everybody for that information. But I think that's a pretty good argument for New York Times to say, look, there are people willing to pay for this information. That's one market that's being undermined by these potential uses and that's going to go towards that fair use factor for. I think what's another thing that's interesting, you mentioned that Microsoft had offered to indemnify or pay for the legal fees of those who are sued for use of their models. Well, there's a reason for this strategically and that's because oftentimes little guys can't afford the kind of big shot lawyers with all the potential arguments that they're going to bring that Microsoft can afford. And in those situations Microsoft doesn't want some little guys lawyer messing up the law for everybody else because we're based on a system of precedent. Yeah, that's why you're the lawyer of Svik AI. Look at this. And the professor has genius because English common law. It's like what are the other people say back in next years? Okay, we're going to stay in line with that. We're not just going to you know what day the disguise purple like this is work. So interesting. Yeah. No cuts. No cuts. I was thinking it was more along the lines of enterprise customers worried that if they used a Microsoft product and then they got themselves into trouble. And that would prevent Microsoft from making sales. But then as you point out like they. Yeah, but as you point out the longer term thing is some random case ends up generating a law that Microsoft never wanted in the first place. They'd much rather be involved in the lawsuit. Yeah, because they small the attorney they person got was Lionel Hust from the Simpsons know what they're doing. It's ruins everything. One of the things that I used to do when I was in practice, you know, I spent nine years in big law. And one of my roles before I went into being the law professor, people sort of said, look you look like this sort of person who's interested in the theory and the big picture a lot. Let's staff you on these long term strategy approaches. And one of the things that I did was say, okay, for huge companies, how do we develop a long term strategy that makes sure that cases all across the globe come out the way that we want them to not just in this specific case, but for the rest of our development. And sometimes that might mean that we want to lose one specific case here so that we can have a greater benefit in the future going forward. So this happens a lot in the patent context where tech companies I would represent both tech and pharmaceutical companies. They often have very diametrically opposed viewpoints on whether patents should be enforceable or not very enforceable. And the tech companies would say, look, maybe we want to lose some of these tiny cases for patent infringement to make it so that patent trolls or non-practicing entities as they're more kindly called can't go and sue us for similar types of technologies. And I think we're seeing the same kind of thing when it comes to open AI and Microsoft, they're trying to develop a long term strategy across all of their cases and they're using strategists like the person that I used to be from any of these cases to say, how can we make sure that this case law that comes out is going to be consistent and good for us across the nation across the world. This is I know that this we've a sweeping leg no mercy that means when someone says something so great. It's like, yes, okay, okay, go more into that than the patent troll aspect you're saying like so you would lose to a patent troll who just out there for the money because somehow you losing the case is going to modify the case loss. So then future patent trolls can't get you dumb it down for me please. So for example, if a large tech company, I'm just going to call them Z, let's say we have tech companies, Z is a mega corporation. They have lots of patents. They do a bunch of engineering and things like that. They might make a decision that even though we have a patent on this one portion of our technology, we are going to not aggressively push for that technology to be protectable, to be found eligible for patenting or to have broad reach because there's this other company that's potentially going to sue us and we have way more potential damages. Somebody could sue us for billions of dollars on the same type of technology. So we don't want that to happen. We're going to push for a narrow interpretation of these claims. We're going to push for a narrow interpretation of the types of materials that are eligible for patenting so that maybe we lose this one case that's worth $100,000 us, but we're going to avoid a situation where somebody sue us for a billion dollars for patent infringement. Okay. That's awesome. Here's another thing. Now let's say we're talking about grand legal strategy. And so Microsoft's like, okay, we're not just doing this to get us to hurt. We're trying to connect the strategy so that case log goes in the direction we want. And would they like do they have to have the companies that they're going to defend does the business owner to sign some waiver or something like saying like Microsoft you'll be able to defend me, but you can make a decisions on how the case is going to be argued because I feel like there's a little bit of conflict of interest there because what Microsoft says, okay, we're going to we're going to lose this one here that might hurt the small business, but we're going to win these other ones. First grade, I have a first grade education. So please go ahead. So if the company is making a decision to indemnify their customers, those will often be embedded in some sort of service contract with those customers that will define the terms of that indemnification and that will say what's going to happen in the event that the customer gets sued, who's going to be responsible for making decisions about the lawsuit and how that's going to operate. That's all going to be part of the contract that goes into that customer contract. So for tech companies, it is very important. If you're giving some sort of indemnity that you're going to be thinking through how much control do you want over those potential lawsuits and how much of the expense do you want to take on because it's a trade off if you want control, you're going to pay a lot for that. Gotcha. And also maybe just kind of side tangent. You can explain how these large corporations organize your legal teams because I used to think like what Microsoft said, we're going to cover everything. I was thinking, oh, Microsoft has like 10 trillion lawyers internally. They're all going to cover it. But it's like, no, there's like a lot of attorneys there that are just managing other law firms that do all the work for Microsoft. And then there's very few things that they're going to personally litigate. Maybe you can talk a little about that. Yeah. So every big tech company is going to have an in house legal department and those in house legal departments are going to be segregated out into a bunch of different groups. You're going to have people that are responsible for contracts. You're going to have people that are responsible for advertising people responsible for patent litigation for corporate litigation for interactions with the securities and exchange commission. There's going to be folks dedicated to each of those functions and there's going to be a train of folks underneath them. And then each of those people are going to be responsible for managing groups of outside counsel and typically those outside counsel are going to be teams of three to 50 people that are going to be working on these large cases when they come up. Now it depends on what kind of law firm you hire, whether they have lean teams or not, that that's going to vary how much your how many people you're going to use. But for a huge patent infringement case, you might see teams of 50 and for a small case or one that has less involved facts, even if it's an important case, you might see a much smaller team, maybe five, seven people. So it can vary dramatically and oftentimes those people will be the same teams across all of the different similar cases. So you might have the same lawyers on all of those cases where an authors group or a group that's generating text is going to be suing open AI for something. So I imagine that we're going to see Microsoft and opening I use the same team of lawyers for the New York time suit as they've been using for some of their previous cases, such as with authors. So we'll have to wait and see. I mentioned your website, which is is Christa lasers, CHR ISTA laser LASER LASER.com check it out and get Christa, thank you so much for joining us. I'm going to quickly do my solicitation here. So sick members, make sure to like, subscribe and support the show. Also, if you go to patreon.com for such sick, I can have more awesome people here such as Christa to answer all your questions. So I'm going to go to the airport to just five bucks a month like you're complaining right now that Disney's terrible because they're producing garbage and you're paying 15 bucks a month for that. And here's a brother and some VP and then Christa here who's like giving you knowledge you can't give us five 10 bucks a month. Like, come on now. Like what's going on here? So anyways, we'll talk to you later.

