 in the United States. I think that we're going to see more and more use of proprietary models taking the lead. We've seen, for example, that in the context of image generation, Adobe was very persuasive to members of Congress when it argued that all the rampant copyright infringement that they were alleging would occur would not happen on their closed proprietary models that were based on licensed information. And so I think that we'll see more and more proprietary licensed models like Adobe, perhaps Apple's models and other models that are based on all licensed content proliferating in the system and not suffering from all of these legal concerns. If we get a court decision that ends up saying that training is not fair use and that training is in fact a copyright infringement, then all of those proprietary models are going to be ready to step in and say come use us, we've got the content still. Guys, a really great point because I remember Microsoft just recently came out and was like, hey, any large company, if using any of our models, you get sued, we're going to cover your legal tab. And I was like, oh, that's really interesting point from the bring up. And what you just mentioned of just training our copyrighted material, you can completely sidestep that. But then my question is like, what's the performance of something purely trained on things that are approved and are copyrighted to be reproduced versus something that just goes out there and just looks at all the yeah. It doesn't have as much data, right? Because it's way broader to get enough information when you're paying everybody for that information. But I think that's a pretty good argument for New York Times to say, look, there are people willing to pay for this information. That's one market that's being undermined by these potential uses. And that's going to go towards that fair use factor for. I think what's another thing that's interesting, you mentioned that Microsoft had offered to indemnify or pay for the legal fees of those who are sued for use of their models. Well, there's a reason for this strategically. And that's because oftentimes little guys can't afford the kind of big shot lawyers with all the potential arguments that they're going to bring that Microsoft can afford. And in those situations, Microsoft doesn't want some little guys lawyer messing up the law for everybody else because we're based on a system of precedent. That's why you're the lawyer of Svick AI lawyer. Look at this. And a professor. I have that as Gigi's because English common law. It's like what are the other people say back and X years? Okay, we're going to stay in line with that. We're not just going to you know what day the disguise purple like this is work. So interesting. Yeah. No cuts indeed. Please. I was thinking it was more along the lines of enterprise customers worried that if they used a Microsoft product and then they got themselves into trouble. And that would prevent Microsoft from making sales. But then as you point out like they are. Yeah, but as you point out the longer term thing is some random case ends up generating a law that Microsoft never wanted in the first place. They'd much rather be involved in the lawsuit. Yeah, because the small, the attorney they personally got was Lionel Huss from The Simpsons. No, they're killing. It just roads everything. One of the things that I used to do when I was in practice, you know, I spent nine years in big lot. And one of my roles before I went into being the law professor, people sort of said, look, you look like this sort of person who's interested in the theory and the big picture a lot. Let's staff you on these long term strategy approaches. And one of the things that I did was say, okay, for huge companies, how do we develop a long term strategy that makes sure that cases all across the globe come out the way that we want them to not just in this specific case, but for the rest of our development. And sometimes that might mean that we want to lose one specific case here so that we can have a greater benefit in the future going forward. So this happens a lot in the patent context where tech companies, I would represent both tech and pharmaceutical companies. They often have very diametrically opposed viewpoints on whether patents should be enforceable or not very enforceable. And the tech companies would say, look, maybe we want to lose some of these tiny cases for patent infringement to make it so that patent trolls or non-practicing entities as they're more kindly called can't go and sue us for similar types of technologies. And I think we're seeing the same kind of thing when it comes to open AI and Microsoft, they're trying to develop a long term strategy across all of their cases. And they're using strategists like the person that I used to be for many of these cases to say, how can we make sure that this case law that comes out is going to be consistent and good for us across the nation, across the world? This is I mean, we've a sleeping leg no mercy. That means when someone says, I think so great. It's like, yes, okay, okay, go more into that than the patent troll aspect you're saying. So you would lose to a patent troll who just out there for the money because somehow you losing the case is going to modify the case law so that future patent trolls can't get you like, dumb it down for A please a small, small way around. So for example, if a large tech company, I'm just going to call them Z. Let's say we have tech companies, Z is a mega corporation. They have lots of patents. They do a bunch of engineering and things like that. They might make a decision that even though we have a patent on this one portion of our technology, we are going to not aggressively push for that technology to be protectable, to be found eligible for patenting or to have broad reach because there's this other company that's potentially going to Sue us and we have way more potential damages. Somebody could sue us for billions of dollars on the same type of technology. So we don't want that to happen. We're going to push for a narrow interpretation of these claims. We're going to push for a narrow interpretation of the types of materials that are eligible for patenting so that maybe we lose this one case that's worth $100,000 to us, but we're going to avoid a situation where somebody sue us for a billion dollars for patent infringement. Okay. That's awesome. Here's another thing. Now let's say we're talking about grand legal strategy. Microsoft is like, okay, we're not just doing this to get us to work hard. We're trying to conduct the strategy so that case law goes in the direction we want. Do they have to have the companies that they're going to defend? Does the business owner decide some waiver or something like saying Microsoft, you'll be able to defend me, but you can make a decision on how the case is going to be argued because I feel like there's a little bit of conflict of interest there because what if Microsoft says, okay, we're going to lose this one here that might hurt the small business, but we're going to win these other ones. I get a first grade. I have a first grade education. So please go ahead. So if the company is making a decision to indemnify their customers, those will often be embedded in some sort of service contract with those customers that will define the terms of that indemnification and that will say what's going to happen in the event that the customer gets sued, who's going to be responsible for making decisions about the lawsuit and how that's going to operate. That's all going to be part of the contract that goes into that customer contract. So for tech companies, it is very important if you're giving some sort of indemnity that you're going to be thinking through how much control do you want over those potential lawsuits and how much of the expense do you want to take on because it's a trade-off. If you want control, you're going to pay a lot for that. Gotcha. And also maybe, which is kind of side tangent, you can kind of explain how these large corporations organize your legal teams because I used to think like what Microsoft said, we're going to cover everything. I was thinking, oh, Microsoft has like 10 trillion lawyers internally and they're all going to cover it. But it's like, no, there's like a lot of attorneys there and they're just managing other law firms that do all the work from Microsoft. And then there's very few things that they're going to personally litigate. Maybe you can talk a little about that. Yeah. So every big tech company is going to have an in-house legal department and those in-house legal departments are going to be segregated out into a bunch of different groups. You're going to have people that are responsible for contracts, you're going to have people that are responsible for advertising, people responsible for patent litigation, for corporate litigation, for interactions with the Securities and Exchange Commission. There's going to be folks dedicated to each of those functions and there's going to be a train of folks underneath them. And then each of those people are going to be responsible for managing groups of outside counsel and typically those outside counsel are going to be teams of three to 50 people that are going to be working on these large cases when they come up. And now it depends on what kind of law firm you hire, whether they have lean teams or not, that that's going to vary how much your how many people you're going to use. But for a huge patent infringement case, you might see teams of 50 and for a small case or one that has less involved facts, even if it's an important case, you might see a much smaller team, maybe five, seven people. So it can vary dramatically. And oftentimes those people will be the same teams across all of the different similar cases. So you might have the same lawyers on all of those cases where an authors group or a group that's generating text is going to be suing OpenAI for something. So I imagine that we're going to see Microsoft and OpenAI use the same team of lawyers for the New York time suit as they've been using for some of their previous cases, such as with authors. So we'll have to wait and see.

